Jeremy Corbyn has faced questions from his own MPs over his stance on the EU ahead of the UK's in/out referendum.
The new Labour leader, who is due to address the TUC in Brighton later, has in the past been seen as a Eurosceptic.
He has signalled he will support a vote to stay in but said David Cameron must not be given a "blank cheque" in talks.
Ahead of his TUC speech leading unions warned they will vote for a UK exit from the EU if workers' rights are weakened by the PM's EU renegotiations.
The congress is expected to pass a TUC General Council Statement that says: "We are issuing a warning to the prime minister: you will lose our members votes to stay in the EU by worsening workers' rights.
"Both the prime minister and the CBI should note that should he succeed in further undermining British workers rights, pressure to put TUC resources and support in the referendum behind a vote to leave the European Union will intensify dramatically."
Shadow foreign secretary Hilary Benn had earlier attempted to calm fears among many Labour MPs that Mr Corbyn could campaign for Britain to leave the EU, insisting the new Labour leader had told him "we will stay to fight together for a better Europe".
National security
But Mr Corbyn appeared to suggest he would not back an "in" vote at any cost, with Labour MPs, saying the changes Mr Cameron agreed to social and employment protections had to be "right ones".
Shadow business secretary Angela Eagle said it was too early to say how the party would campaign.
She told BBC 2's Newsnight: "That has got to be the aim but we are not going to, before we even know what the prime minister is going to come back with, know precisely how we are going to be campaigning."
Labour MP and former home secretary Alan Johnson has been lined up to lead Labour's campaign to stay in the UK in the referendum, which is expected before the end of.
Mr Corbyn was also quizzed by Labour MPs on Northern Ireland, the refugee crisis, national security and Syria, according to reports on twitter from MPs (the meeting was closed to journalists).
The atmosphere was not hostile, according to reports, but he was not met by MPs banging on tables - the traditional greeting for a new leader.
Mr Corbyn is likely to receive a more enthusiastic reception later when he addresses trade union delegates later in Brighton.
He is also due to attend a service to mark the anniversary of the Battle of Britain.
The new Labour leader faced murmurs of "hostility and concern" from some Labour MPs at Monday's meeting after he refused to rule out wearing a white poppy on Remembrance Sunday, one of those present said.
"The point he made was that he had not decided what he would do this year. He went on to say why people wear white poppies," said Labour MP Simon Danczuk.
"He should wear a red one in memory of members of the armed forces who have given their lives. It is one day in the year that it's important not to focus on other issues.
Mr Corbyn has previously worn both red and white poppies together on his lapel when laying a wreath at the war memorial in Islington as a local MP, the London Evening Standard reported.
A Labour Party spokeswoman confirmed later that Mr Corbyn, who is chairman of the Stop the War coalition, would wear a red poppy on Remembrance Sunday.
According to the Stop The War coalition, wearing a white poppy is a "respectful way to put peace at the heart of remembering those who died in war".
Mr Corbyn has sought to address some of the ructions caused by his victory by forming what he said was a "unifying" shadow cabinet but his appointment of fellow left-wing MP John McDonnell to the key role of shadow chancellor has angered some in the party.
Mr Corbyn has pledged to oppose the government's spending and welfare cuts and also to challenge a proposed new law tightening the rules on trade union strike ballots. Proposals that would impose a 50% threshold for participation in strike ballot, and a 40% threshold for stoppages involving essential public services, passed their first parliamentary hurdle when they were backed by MPs by 33 votes.
In his first TV interview on Monday, newly appointed shadow chancellor John McDonnell said capitalism was "failing" and he wanted to "transform it". He told Channel 4 News he believed the role of shadow chancellor was "to put forward an alternative to what's happening at the moment".
He said he was "not particularly interested in tax on income" and instead wanted to focus on those who were "literally laughing all the way to the bank" and "not paying their fair share".
Writing in the Times, Chancellor George Osborne said that Mr McDonnell's appointment broke decades of economic consensus.
"Far from celebrating this turmoil, for me, as chancellor, this means going back to first principles and winning again the arguments made by both Conservative and previous Labour governments alike," he said.
"As the whole Labour party shifts left, abandoning the centre ground, it abandons the working people of this country, including millions who voted Labour but do not support the ideas of the party's new leadership," added Mr Osborne.
Jeremy Corbyn has said Labour can win the 2020 general election by putting forward a "vision of a better society" and a different kind of politics.
The Labour leader told the TUC Congress austerity was a political choice and a "more equal" Britain was "not a dream".
He vowed to fight the government's proposed welfare cuts and other austerity measures, labelling the Conservatives "poverty deniers".
Of his own style, he said he would not be "an all-seeing, all-knowing leader".
He told delegates that he wanted wide input, including from unions and Labour branches across the country, using social media as part of digital policy-making. "Let's do things differently and do them together," he said.
'Warning to PM'
He said Labour would become a "growing, stronger movement... more confident and more determined than ever, and above all we are going to win in 2020 and we will see the end of this Tory government".
In a 15-minute speech, he did not mention the subject of Europe once amid growing concerns among Labour MPs, most of whom support Britain's membership of the EU, that the new leadership has not ruled out campaigning for an exit.
Ahead of the TUC speech, leading unions warned they will vote for a UK exit from the EU if workers' rights are weakened by the PM's EU renegotiations while one shadow cabinet member said he would quit if the party argued for an Out vote.
The congress is expected to pass a TUC General Council Statement that says: "We are issuing a warning to the prime minister: you will lose our members' votes to stay in the EU by worsening workers' rights.
Reflecting on the "fast journey" that he had taken since being elected leader on Saturday, Mr Corbyn vowed to "build" on the momentum generated by his successful leadership campaign to develop a new kind of politics, saying 30,000 people had joined the Labour Party in the past three days.
Citing Labour's central role in creating the NHS and pushing for giving women the right to vote, he said the "whole vision of those who founded our movement and our political party was about doing things differently".
"We build on that in the way we do our policy, we build on that in the way we build our movement, we build on that in the way we inspire people to come together to build a better, fairer, decent, more equal, more just society.
"These things aren't just dreams. These are practical realities that we together intend to achieve."
'Social cleansing'
In the speech, he defended the make-up of his shadow cabinet amid complaints and women had been overlooked for top jobs and said he would take the fight to the government on the economy.
"They call us deficit deniers. But then they spend billions cutting taxes for the richest families or for the most profitable businesses.
"What they are is poverty deniers: Ignoring the growing queues at food banks. Ignoring the growing housing crisis. Cutting Tax Credits when child poverty rose by half a million under the last government to over four million. Let's be clear austerity is a political choice."
Labour, he said, would also vigorously oppose the government's plans to reduce the household cap on benefits and cut child tax credits, measures being debated in the Commons on Tuesday
"We will bring the welfare bill down by controlling rents and boosting wages, not by impoverishing families and socially cleansing our communities."
Mr Corbyn, who won the backing of major trade unions during Labour's leadership campaign, rejected suggestions that trade union solidarity was a "thing of the past" - saying their influence was felt not just in the workplace but throughout society.
He pledged to fight government legislation which would impose a 50% threshold for participation in strike ballot, and a 40% threshold for stoppages involving essential public services, saying it was a "declaration of war" which contravened basic rights of free association.
"They think it is still right to attack trade unions because they exist," he said. "If they get the bill through it will be a damage to the civil liberties of society."
Jeremy Corbyn has promised a "rather different" approach to Prime Minister's Questions as he prepares to quiz David Cameron for the first time.
The new Labour leader said the public had had enough of "theatrical politics" and he would hold the government properly to account.
"It's going to be interesting. I don't expect it's going to be easy," he said.
He will put six questions to the prime minister during the half-hour session, which starts at 12:00 BST.
Mr Corbyn said: "It's going to be interesting. I do not suspect it's going to be easy but then our job is to hold the government to account. Our job is to speak up for ordinary people in this country."
He was also quizzed about whether he would sing the national anthem at official events, after declining to do so on Tuesday, he said: "I am going to be at many events. I will take part fully in those events."
Labour sources said this meant Mr Corbyn would be singing the anthem in future, BBC Assistant Political Editor Norman Smith said.
Mr Corbyn is the first leader of the opposition in modern times to come straight from the backbenches, having never held a ministerial or shadow ministerial post.
But speculation he will ask his questions to Mr Cameron from the backbenches, rather than from the opposition leader's traditional place at the despatch box, is thought to be wide of the mark.
Prime Minister's Questions is Jeremy Corbyn's real shop window for the voting public, not town hall meetings around the country.
And for leaders it is a moment when, traditionally, they have to show they are in command of their party.
Jeremy Corbyn is in command of Labour members - the MPs who'll sit behind him at PMQs are another matter. But today is an important test not just for Mr Corbyn personally, but for his new approach - how successful can his new rules be, when everyone else is playing by the old?
Mr Corbyn has promised a new style of leadership with more input from Labour members and debate about policy, with the party's positions on key issues such as Europe and welfare still being worked out.
On Tuesday, Mr Corbyn told trade unionists at the TUC conference he wanted to scrap the government's welfare cap, which limits the total amount a household can claim in benefits.
Hours later, shadow work and pensions secretary Owen Smith said the party was "very clear" it was opposing only government plans to reduce the cap from £26,000 to £23,000.
Attempting to clarify the party's position, shadow minister for women and equalities Kate Green said: "We accept the principle of the cap, but it is not currently before Parliament to have a vote to remove it altogether.
"Obviously if that becomes a possibility in Parliament, the party collectively will decide where we stand."
Mr Corbyn has also faced criticism over his decision not to sing the national anthem at a service to mark the 75th anniversary of the Battle of Britain.
A spokesman for Mr Corbyn said he had "stood in respectful silence" and did recognise the "heroism of the Royal Air Force in the Battle of Britain".
But Ms Green said it would have been "respectful, right and appropriate" to join in and many people will have been "hurt" by his stance.
Mr Smith told BBC Two's Newsnight programme he would have advised the Labour leader to sing the national anthem "irrespective" of his belief the monarchy should be abolished.
Mr Corbyn will be the fifth Labour leader to face Mr Cameron across the despatch box over the past decade since he became Conservative leader.
The Islington North MP has said PMQs is too confrontational and that he will refrain from both "repartee" and trading barbs, instead vowing to focus on serious issues such as poverty, inequality and the challenges facing young people.
He has received more than 30,000 emailed suggestions for questions.
Mr Corbyn has said that Angela Eagle, the shadow business secretary, will deputise for him at PMQs when he does not attend - for instance when Mr Cameron is travelling abroad, when deputy leaders traditionally stand in at the despatch box.
He has also floated the idea of allowing other colleagues to take the floor on occasion, saying he had approached the Commons Speaker John Bercow to discuss the issue.
Jeremy Corbyn has made his first major speech as Labour leader. What did it reveal about him?
The leader of the opposition's address to the TUC conference in Brighton represented a major platform for the left-wing MP.
He spoke of his "vision of a better society", adding that a "more equal" Britain was "not a dream". Corbyn also accused David Cameron of being a "poverty denier" and said austerity was a political choice.
What do experts have to say about the speech?
Corbyn's speech stressed transformation. "Let's do things differently and do them together," he told delegates. Labour would win in 2020 with a "vision of a better society".
The speech itself was a departure from those typically made by party leaders, says barrister and public speaking expert Graham Davis. Corbyn's choice of words was unusually low-key. "It's almost as though he decided not to use so many of the rhetorical devices that work so well," Davies adds.
This is very much in keeping with Corbyn's unflashy style which has endeared him to Labour supporters in the leadership ballot. Indeed, during the TUC speech Corbyn's focus appeared to be on the delegates in the hall rather than the journalists or TV cameras following him.
Extracts of the speech circulated by Labour before it was delivered showed Mr Corbyn had intended to use a phrase deployed by Baroness Thatcher during the miners strike in 1984.
"For the Tories, you are still the enemy within. They think they will put me and Labour on the back foot by highlighting our support for trade unionism," he was expected to say. Except he didn't.
One phrase he did use that has already been much discussed is "poverty deniers" a badge for Conservatives who have dismissed him as a "deficit denier". "Poverty deniers" is a term that has been used by a handful of writers in the US but will now no doubt crop up more often.
Some parts of what Corbyn said were distinctively "traditional Labour", such as referring to the role of unions in guaranteeing "the right of a working class to have a voice in society as a whole".
But Corbyn also talked about core values of "solidarity, compassion, social justice, fighting for the underprivileged".
With the possible exception of solidarity these are terms used by politicians across the spectrum. Indeed David Cameron in his 2014 leader's speech to conference, said: "The real party of compassion and social justice today is here in this hall - the Conservative Party."
Tony Blair's 2004 leader's speech to party conference referred to "fairness, justice, solidarity, opportunity for all".
Corbyn may have been on the political fringes for most of his life. But after 30 years in national politics, Corbyn is an accomplished public speaker, says Harry Witchel, a public speaking expert.
"He's very comfortable up there," he says. "He's learned his craft, but he doesn't come across as studied or fake."
Unlike other politicians, he doesn't hide behind the podium or use it as a form of protection. Instead he grips it firmly "as a way of getting more oomph".
He tends to start each point off calmly, often with a question. This builds until "he's giving a fulsome emotional response", often using head nods to emphasise his conclusion.
Witchel says Corbyn regularly uses a technique known as "hand batoning" - that is, using his hands to hit the beat as he makes a point. It's a gesture he shares with one of his predecessors: "Tony Blair was the last great hand batoner in Labour."
But there are clear indications that Corbyn has spent much of his political career addressing noisy halls and outdoor rallies rather than formal conference halls, says Witchel.
His eyes look at the audience, not at the cameras. "He's not used to people just ceding the floor for him. He's used to having to fight to get people's attention," Witchel adds.
This means his voice is raised and he "does speak at a canter" - a number of people have commented on the speed of his delivery. Witchel says that to some this will be seen as a sign of how passionate and quick-thinking he is - to others it may come over as strident.
The address saw Corbyn, a former trade union official, very much on home turf.
"It couldn't have been a better forum for Jeremy Corbyn to make his first major speech," says Jon Tonge, professor of politics at Liverpool University. Many of those in the crowd will have given him their backing.
As such he spent much of his speech condemning the government's trade union bill, which would impose a 50% threshold for participation in strike ballots and a 40% threshold for stoppages involving essential public services.
The contrast could not have been greater with Corbyn's predecessors. "With Blairites the link with the trade unions was a financial necessity," says Tonge. Corbyn, by contrast, saw it as a matter of pride. He warmly spoke of his own days as a union official.
But there were omissions, too. In the 15-minute speech he did not address the issue of Europe, amid concerns by senior Labour MPs that he has not ruled out campaigning for exit in the forthcoming referendum.
And nor did it have much to say to those who did not already consider themselves part of the Labour movement, believes Tonge: "There was no indication of how he was going to win back the 11.3m people who voted Conservative."
Corbyn doesn't dress like a typical politician.
Many people might be annoyed at any politician's dress sense being the subject of discussion - rather than their policies - but it is unarguable that it has always been a talking point from Michael Foot's coat at a Remembrance service to Margaret Thatcher's handbags.
The second most popular comment on a Daily Mail story about Corbyn's appearance at a Battle of Britain memorial service read: "Couldn't even summon enough respect to do up his top button." The comment had been upvoted by more than 3,500 readers.
Other Labour leaders have been very deliberate in their dress. Tony Blair was noted for favouring Savile Row suits, although he was sure to appear casual at the right moment. His taste for open-necked blue shirts was often commented on - it was what he was wearing as he emerged from Downing St to talk to the press after the birth of his son Leo. David Cameron has been referred to as the "blue polo shirt PM" for the consistency of his holiday wardrobe.
Whereas Cameron is typically "quite groomed" and Blair was invariably "groomed to within an inch of his life", Corbyn is clearly "not groomed in any way, shape or form", says life and style consultant Ceril Campbell, author of Discover The New You.
For those who regard Corbyn as a man of the people who sticks up for the less fortunate, it's a look that will go down well, she adds. It signals a man whose mind is on higher matters.
Traditionally, leaders eschewed beards because it was felt that they looked as if they were hiding something, Campbell says. Corbyn clearly has no such worries: "It's not even a tidy, clipped beard."
At the TUC he appeared to have a pen in his shirt pocket and a mobile phone attached to his belt, Campbell says - not the kind of accessories a prime-minister-in-waiting typically sports.
"Either he's lost lots of weight or he's got on a suit that's too big for him," she says. Corbyn had discarded a tie he wore earlier to the Battle of Britain memorial service.
Like Kenneth Clarke, known for his cigars and Hush Puppies, or Nigel Farage with his hats and distinctive overcoats, unconventional clothes can quickly become part of a politician's brand, says Campbell. Much has already been made of Corbyn's fondness for vests.
Nonetheless, she doesn't believe there's anything cynical about Corbyn couture.
"I don't think he did it in a considered way," Campbell says. "I think he did it because that's how he dresses."
Lord Mandelson has advised Labour Party members unhappy at the election of Jeremy Corbyn not to be in a hurry to see him replaced as leader.
In comments seen by the Guardian newspaper, the peer argues Mr Corbyn has to demonstrate his "unelectability" at the polls before facing a challenge.
Last month, Lord Mandelson warned that Labour could be in "mortal danger" if Mr Corbyn won the party's leadership.
Mr Corbyn's team and the Labour Party have not commented on the remarks.
In a private paper circulated to political associates last week, Lord Mandelson told opponents of Mr Corbyn to prepare for the "long haul".
He said: "In choosing Corbyn instead of Ed Miliband, the general public now feel we are just putting two fingers up to them, exchanging one loser for an even worse one.
'Public will decide'
"We cannot be elected with Corbyn as leader. Nobody will replace him, though, until he demonstrates to the party his unelectability at the polls.
"In this sense, the public will decide Labour's future and it would be wrong to try and force this issue from within before the public have moved to a clear verdict."
BBC political correspondent Iain Watson says the comments can be seen as a message to long-standing members of the party to wait until next spring - after elections to the Scottish Parliament and for London mayor - before making any move on Mr Corbyn's position.
If the advice is followed, it may give Mr Corbyn breathing space free from open warfare in the party, our correspondent adds.
The left-wing Islington North MP, who is 66, was elected as Labour leader with nearly 60% of the party vote earlier this month,
Ahead of the election, Lord Mandelson was joined by New Labour colleagues Tony Blair and Gordon Brown in warning of the dangers of a Corbyn leadership.
Jeremy Corbyn has said Labour may have to go into next year's Holyrood elections without having a clear position on Trident.
The Labour leader, who is visiting Scotland, said he hoped the position would have been resolved by then.
But he told BBC Scotland that he could give no guarantee.
Mr Corbyn is opposed to nuclear weapons but his party is presently committed to renewing the Trident system, which is based on the Clyde.
He said on Wednesday that he would not fire Britain's nuclear weapons if he were prime minister, with his comments being criticised by some senior Labour colleagues.
His visit to Scotland came four months after Labour lost 40 of its 41 Scottish MPs to the SNP in the general election.
'Doing great'
Former Scottish Labour leader Johann Lamont resigned in December of last year, saying the Scottish party was being treated as a "branch office".
Left-winger Mr Corbyn, who won the leadership of his party last month, said his priority was winning back votes in Scotland and insisted he would not interfere in the "operation" of Scottish Labour.
Speaking to journalists outside the Scottish Parliament on Thursday, he said: "We're doing great, party membership is going up after my first conference as leader and things are going really well."
The Holyrood election takes place in May of next year when Scottish Labour, now led by Kezia Dugdale, will be defending 38 seats.
Speaking ahead of the visit, Mr Corbyn said: "Under my leadership there will be no question about who is in charge of the Scottish Labour Party.
"Kezia Dugdale is leader of our party in Scotland and I will be working alongside her to win back support for Labour."
He added: "Kez has said that she wants to make absolutely clear what the Labour Party stands for and who we stand with. That is also my mission across the UK.
"Too many people have told me that they think the Labour Party lost its way. We need to win back their trust by showing them exactly what difference a Labour government would make to their lives.
"The stakes are high for Scotland. People can't afford a Tory government whose policies are making people work harder for less or an SNP government that is intent on having the arguments of the past rather than looking to the future."
'Utterly indefensible'
He visited the Scottish Parliament to meet MSPs before also meeting trade unionists and party activists.
The SNP had earlier challenged Mr Corbyn to use his visit to end what it termed "the chaos and confusion" over Labour's policy on replacing the Trident nuclear weapons system.
SNP deputy leader Stewart Hosie said: "Labour's position on Trident has become utterly indefensible.
"After days of chaos and infighting, Jeremy Corbyn must use his trip to Scotland to make clear whether he is leading Labour - or whether Labour is leading him.
"Jeremy Corbyn needs to be straight with the people of Scotland - will Labour oppose Trident nuclear weapons on our shores, or simply allow the Tories to go ahead with this outdated and unwanted project."
Just in case you missed Jeremy Corbyn's speech to Labour conference, here is a brief synopsis:
"I can wear a tie. I can tell a joke. The nasty media have been nasty to me. Thank you everyone for electing me. I won't lead but I will listen. I want a different, kinder politics. But don't forget I have a huge mandate. Labour will oppose austerity. I am not a risk to families' security. It is the Tories who have left families insecure. I will borrow money to invest in infrastructure like housing and broadband. I want local authorities to retake control over schools (big cheer).
Britain needs a strong army but only for peacekeeping. I oppose renewing Trident. Tony Blair took Britain to war in Iraq on a false prospectus. I oppose British airstrikes over Syria.
British politics is changing. My election was a political earthquake. I am popular and authentic. The mainstream media don't get it. Social media is the future. Labour Party members will now have the final say over policy - NB my Cabinet in the Shadows. Grown-up politics allows for disagreement. I won't be rude to people. So, my fellow Corbynistas, don't you be rude either, particularly online.
I will oppose Tory plans to update the electoral register so Labour doesn't lose student votes. I will oppose cuts to tax credits. I am a patriot. I share the same values as the British people. I love my country. I like the NHS and the BBC. I don't like profit.
Self-employed workers should have statutory maternity and paternity pay. The railways should be nationalised. I want to build more council houses and spend more on mental health. You don't have to accept your place in a world shaped by globalisation and competitive markets. Labour is the voice saying you don't have to take what you are given. You don't have to set any limits to your ambition. I am very well read and can quote Maya Angelou and Ben Okri without blushing. Like Chinese communists, I am quite comfortable engaging in mutual applause. And the shadow cabinet should not feel under any pressure to keep clapping until I stop."
Here are a few immediate thoughts:
This was a speech directed at the Labour Party itself. Mr Corbyn spoke to the hall rather than the nation. The mood inside was one of communion between leader and membership. I haven't seen that kind of spontaneous applause and standing ovations from Labour's rank and file for their leader since the days of Neil Kinnock. The homespun tone appealed to a party tired of polished soundbites and messaging. His issues are their issues and they liked what they heard. The only time Mr Corbyn challenged his own supporters was when he urged them not to engage in online abuse against their opponents in the parliamentary party.
There was not much of a message for the outside world. Mr Corbyn spoke of his love of his country to counter the damage caused by his refusal to sing the national anthem. He promised voters a new, kinder politics. But he did not mention the budget deficit once. Nor did he mention immigration. Or crime. Or Labour's general election defeat. At some point, these are issues that he will need to address. On the basis of this speech, I have no greater idea of how Labour might win in 2020.
There was, buried deep in the speech, the germ of an interesting idea. Mr Corbyn said that Labour wanted to ensure that people did not have to accept their lot in life. On one level, this was a familiar leftist moan about the inequities of globalisation and competitive markets. But it also opened the way for Mr Corbyn to talk about aspiration. He said this: "You don't have to set limits on your talent and your ambition", a phrase which any Tory would be happy to repeat. If Mr Corbyn can unite his offer of a new politics with an attractive riff on aspiration, he might surprise us.
Jeremy Corbyn is an isolated figure in Europe who fails to understand that Islamic State forces pose a “clear and present danger” to Britain, David Cameron has said.
In a toughening of his rhetoric against the Labour leader, the prime minister said Corbyn did not share the view of other European countries that have woken up to the threat posed by Isis.
Speaking on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme on Tuesday, Cameron confirmed that he would seek the support of Labour MPs to extend British airstrikes against Isis targets from Iraq to Syria.
Labour MPs are expected to be given a free vote in an attempt by the party leadership to avoid a damaging row after Corbyn made clear he is opposed to airstrikes against Isis in all circumstances.
The prime minister said the Labour leader was mistaken. Cameron told Today: “I don’t think frankly he sees what the Isil risk is. This a group of people in Iraq and in Syria not only causing mayhem in those two countries but who are plotting day by day to kill and maim people on the streets of Britain and America and Australia and France and Belgium and the rest of Europe. The rest of Europe has woken up to this threat and is taking increasing action, but I don’t think the Labour leader seems to see that.”
Downing Street is expected to hold a Commons vote later in the autumn to approve an extension of UK involvement in the airstrikes against Isis targets. Cameron indicated that he would have to rely on the support of Labour MPs as he acknowledged that some Tory MPs would side with Corbyn in opposing the extension.
Cameron, who said he had not yet embarked on a programme of discussions with Labour MPs, said he would only hold a vote when he was confident of securing a Commons majority. “Would I like to go further and make sure Britain plays a part in what is happening against Isil in Syria? Yes, I would. And I think it would be the right thing for us to do. I can’t put a timescale on the vote because it is perfectly clear to me we have to go back to the House of Commons at a time when there is a greater consensus across the House of Commons for that action.”
The prime minister said David Richards, the former chief of the defence staff, had written to him to say he had been misquoted in a new Cameron biography. Lord Richards is quoted in the book by Sir Anthony Seldon as saying that Cameron’s approach to international conflict seemed “more about the Notting Hill liberal agenda rather than statecraft”. 
The former CDS reportedly told Seldon that in 2012 Cameron rejected a “coherent military strategy” to confront Bashar al-Assad which would have led to extremists being “squeezed out of existence”.
The prime minister told Today: “I don’t accept that. Actually David Richards has written publicly and written to me saying that he doesn’t agree with what he has been quoted as saying. But nonetheless he can speak for himself.”
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn will join the Privy Council despite missing its first meeting since his appointment.
It would have been the first chance for the Labour leader, a life-long republican, to be sworn in to the historic group which advises monarchs.
A spokesman for Mr Corbyn said he was unable to attend due to "other commitments".
Labour said it was not a snub and pointed out David Cameron took three months to be sworn in to the council.
Conservative MP Alan Duncan said Mr Corbyn had to decide whether he was a serious political figure.
Opposition leaders can receive briefings from the security services through their membership of the group.
The Privy Council's role is to advise the monarch of the day in carrying out their duties, such as the exercise of prerogative powers and other functions assigned to them by Acts of Parliament.
Much of its business is rather routine and is concerned with obtaining the monarch's formal approval to orders which have already been discussed and approved by ministers or for the arranging for the issuing of royal proclamations. Queen Anne was the last monarch to refuse an order.
Last month Mr Corbyn refused to say whether he would kneel to the Queen as part of the traditional swearing-in ceremony.
His spokesman said the Labour leader could not make Thursday evening's meeting because of prior commitments and had sent his apologies.
Mr Corbyn's team has not said what the engagement preventing his attendance, although it is understood he may be travelling to a fundraising event tomorrow in Scotland.
"Although Jeremy was unavailable for today's meeting, he has confirmed he will be joining the Privy Council.
"As the prime minister and others did, it is far from unusual to miss the first meeting due to other commitments," said the spokesman.
The council has about 600 members - although only a handful usually attend the monthly meetings.
Prime Minister David Cameron was sworn in as a Privy Counsellor in March 2006, three months after he became leader of the Conservatives.
Jeremy Corbyn's team say he hasn't snubbed the Queen by declining to attend today's meeting of the Privy Council. They say he simply couldn't attend and is awaiting a further invitation. He won't be alone in his non-attendance today.
Usually only about half a dozen ministers attend, and the quorum - which makes the meeting official - is just three. Not every leader of the opposition rushes to be sworn in at the first opportunity - David Cameron took three months to attend.
The ceremony involves a rather elaborate form of lowering yourself to the monarch. It also involves the extensive oath to the Queen, which as a republican, he might find more objectionable. The question is whether Jeremy Corbyn is delaying his swearing in, or trying to avoid it.
Mr Duncan, who is also a Privy Counsellor, said Mr Corbyn seemed to want to put politics above the Queen.
He also added that the new Labour leader needed to decide if he wanted to be a serious political figure or a perpetual rebel.
Shadow Cabinet Office minister, Jon Ashworth told the BBC's Daily Politics that he had been told Jeremy Corbyn "had a private appointment today that he couldn't get out of - but he is going to go and see the Queen".
"He is going to do it and I'm sure he will do it in an appropriate and respectful way and he will get on with it soon."
Meanwhile, the SNP's leader at Westminster Angus Robertson - who has also been appointed to the Privy Council - confirmed he would be attending the meeting on Thursday.
BBC assistant political editor Norman Smith said the MP had said it was essential in order to receive intelligence briefings.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is expected to urge a shake up in the economy to give more support to businesses that operate in the wider interests of the community.
He will make the call during a visit to Glasgow later.
Mr Corbyn argues public confidence has been undermined by irresponsible behaviour by a minority of firms.
His schedule in Scotland includes a housing association visit and a party fund-raising dinner.
An advance of the Labour leader's speech has been released citing the example of a Scottish sandwich shop enterprise which diverts profits to good causes and employs formerly homeless people.
Mr Corbyn will contrast that with what he calls the "excess of a few" during the financial crisis. Britain, he will say, should promote firms which "don't lock out trade unions and don't rely on zero hours contracts".
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has urged a shake up in the economy to give more support to businesses that operate in the wider interests of the community.
He made the call during a visit to Glasgow.
Mr Corbyn argued public confidence had been undermined by irresponsible behaviour by a minority of firms.
During his latest trip to Scotland, Mr Corbyn visited a housing association and attended a party fund-raising dinner.
The Labour leader cited the example of a Scottish sandwich shop enterprise which diverts profits to good causes and employs formerly homeless people.
Mr Corbyn contrasted that with what he called the "excess of a few" during the financial crisis. Britain, he said, should promote firms which "don't lock out trade unions and don't rely on zero hours contracts".
'Revitalised Labour'
Mr Corbyn also branded last week's Conservative Party conference in Manchester "a feast of spin and deception".
He told his Glasgow audience: "Fake claims to be on the side of working people while robbing three million low paid families of £1,300 a year with the Tax Credit cuts.
"350,000 families in Scotland receive tax credits, more than 50,000 in Glasgow are at risk from these Tory cuts.
"Fake claims to be fighting poverty on the very day independent research revealed their cuts would drive more than 200,000 working households into poverty.
"Fake claims to support equality as Theresa May was condemned by the Institute of Directors for jeopardising Britain's economic recovery by pandering to anti-immigration sentiment.
"Our huge and growing membership, a revitalised Labour, is what has rattled Cameron and the Tories. While they hide behind crude personal attacks, we will continue to judge their actions, not their words because Labour stands with the many, the great majority of the British people who demand a fairer and more equal society."
Whilst acknowledging Mr Corbyn's anti-austerity rhetoric, the SNP reaction to his speech was one of scepticism.
SNP MSP Sandra White said: "Jeremy Corbyn is right to highlight the appalling impact of the Tory's cuts to tax credits and continued commitment to austerity - which begs the question why his shadow chancellor has already said that he'll mandate Labour MPs to vote with the Tories for George Osborne's fiscal plans, and why his party worked shoulder to shoulder with the Tories throughout the referendum campaign."
Since your election to the Labour leadership, political commentators have been asking you hard questions about the key issues of our time. Now I want to ask you a question about social care. It could certainly benefit from the new perspective and radicalism you have brought to political discussion.
Admittedly, social care has long been seen as far less than a major issue by successive governments, if you look at the priority and funding they give it. So far, it has never been seen to merit the oversight of a senior minister, let alone a member of the cabinet.
Yet we know that social care’s current failure is creating chaos for the NHS and causing untold financial waste and human suffering for hundreds of thousands of older and disabled people and their families. It has a workforce at least as large as the NHS and, with changes in demographics and medical innovation, the long term community-based support it is intended to provide is becoming more important than the acute care associated with the NHS. At the same time, there is widespread agreement that its funding is chronically inadequate.
Life outside the public sector: what it's like to be a social care spin-out Anne-Helene Sinha. New Labour failed to address social care properly. It set up the Sutherland Commission as a manifesto commitment in 1997, which recommended free nursing and personal care – such as help with washing and dressing. But Tony Blair’s government rejected its recommendations.
More recently, it was hoped the Dilnot Commission on the future funding of social care would offer a solution without making new demands on the public purse. But it became clear that the private insurance industry wasn’t stepping up to the plate. Instead, there would still be big bills for many in need. Under this government, Dilnot’s implementation looks increasingly unlikely. The Independent Living Fund was a great idea, but it did not enable equality for all, and now has been destroyed by short-term cost cutting.
he integration of health and social care has been the mantra of successive governments. To achieve this, redistribution of funding, reorganisations and new local partnerships have been recommended. But none of these has addressed the fundamental problem getting in the way of the seamless collaboration of the NHS and social care. This is that they are based on fundamentally opposed principles and funding systems.
Social care is the last legacy of the Victorian poor law, left almost untouched by the creation of the welfare state. It remains a means-and-needs tested service, with ever-shrinking budgets as austerity cuts are imposed on local councils. The NHS is still essentially a universalist service, free at the point of delivery, funded out of general taxation . Why would we expect such conflicting systems to work in harmony?
There are increasing right-wing ideological pressures to bring the NHS more into line with social care, through more charging, more privatisation and more means and needs testing. No major political party, except the Greens, has made the case for putting social care services on the same footing as the NHS; paid for out of general taxation, free at the point of delivery.
The fragile care market will collapse unless councils act quickly.
Instead of seeing social care as a financial burden it is time it was seen, like health, as a wealth creator. Isn’t this the policy most in line with your broader values? Isn’t it actually the most cost-effective policy, despite the derision of its opponents? How else are we likely to get a truly effective, preventative social care service, with a workforce that has decent conditions of work and career opportunities, that no longer transfers inefficiencies and waste onto the NHS, creating human and economic costs?
In recent years, lots of “more for less” ideas have been touted to get social care out of the mess it is in. But the evidence shows that the latest personal budgets, which put service users in charge of their own social care spending, fail to give greater control, and actually create more costs and bureaucracy. Extending such a voucher system to the NHS in the form of personal health budgets, as is now happening, undermines its universalist, needs-based principles and is unsupported by the evidence. Meanwhile, because of the inadequacy of social care support in the community, far too many people are still being institutionalised, denied the real choice of living with suitable support in their own homes.
Jeremy Corbyn returns to parliament this week having passed the one-month marker as Labour’s leader, where he will look forward to a string of elections that could determine when and how Labour moderates decide to challenge his leadership.
The stability of Corbyn’s leadership depends critically on how his party does in the elections for London mayor, English local government, the Welsh assembly, the Scottish parliament and the second set of police and crime commissioners. Corbyn will be desperately hoping that Labour wins back the mayoralty after two terms of Boris Johnson. The contest is likely to be focused on party appeal rather than the personalities of either Sadiq Khan or Zac Goldsmith, and national and local factors will almost certainly decide the outcome.
In 2012, Johnson won 1,054,011 votes (44%) to Ken Livingstone’s 992, 273 on a 38.1 % turn out. Livingstone then was quite a divisive figure, and few think Goldsmith has the same, rare popular appeal as Johnson.
Corbyn’s critics say he has had a shaky start to his leadership; wavered on a set of second-string issues and has been slow to provide a coherent alternative political agenda. Labour moderates have made it clear that if his performance has not improved by next spring, and if his first contact with the electorate takes the party further away from power, then moves to persuade the party membership to consider a new leader will start in earnest.
Their ability to act is, however, largely in the hands of the electorate. Only voters can destabilise Corbyn; not MPs who currently appear out of step with the new party membership.
Demographic changes, including the large ethnic minority vote, should help Labour. These in part explain the seven seats Labour gained in the 2015 general election, taking its overall tally to 45 of the 73 Greater London parliamentary seats. A YouGov poll for the London Standard last week showed the capital is only just beginning to form its view, with 29 % supporting Khan and 28 % supporting Goldsmith. Some 44% of Londoners, including more than half of women, are “not sure” which candidate to back yet.
Corbyn’s supporters are riding on the potential of their leader’s leftist politics to win back Scotland, and this will be put to the test in the first Scottish parliament election since 2011. Corbyn has already visited Scotland twice since he was elected in September.
The SNP currently has 53 constituency seats in parliament and 16 regional seats. Labour, by contrast, won 15 constituency and 22 regional seats. Since those elections in 2011 the SNP is benefitting from a post-referendum surge in support : a TNS poll published last week showed the SNP on 56% of the constituency vote, Labour 21% and the Conservatives 12%.
This would mean Labour has regressed on on its May 2015 result in Scotland by 3%, just inside the margin of error, and the SNP is at least 10% ahead of its 2011 election result. Such a result would give the SNP 71 seats, Labour 26 and the Conservatives as many as 24.
Corbyn can legitimately argue that it is a long road back to Scotland, and its identity politics is sui generis. But scrutiny of the SNP record is growing and Scotland could be the litmus test of whether Corbyn’s politics can make an impact.
In England there will be 2,260 council elections in May, including in 36 metropolitan borough councils, 19 unitary authorities and 71 district authorities. There will be all out elections in Rotherham and Sheffield– a test for Corbyn’s ability to withstand Ukip inroads in the old northern working class base.
John Curtice, professor of politics at Strathclyde University, said: “The difficulty for Corbyn is that these local elections will be tested against a high water mark of progress for Ed Miliband in 2012, a contest held against the backdrop of George Osborne’s ‘omni-shambles’ budget.”
In the local elections in 2012, Labour gained 823 seats, taking 38% of the vote; the Tories 31% and the Liberal Democrats 16%. It was probably the single most successful electoral night Miliband experienced. If Corbyn can take the Labour vote over 40% it would be one of the best local election results for the party since 1997. A vote in the low thirties would be worrying.
In the Welsh assembly elections, Corbyn has to withstand a triple challenge from Plaid Cymru, Ukip and the Conservatives. The Tories increased their share of the vote in the general election, holding on to all their seats and gaining three more, including two from Labour. Ukip polled well in former coalfield constituencies.
In the one poll published so far, Corbyn does seem to have had some impact at the expense of Plaid Cymru and the Lib Dems. It showed Labour on 42% (+5 on its May result); the Conservatives on 26% (-2); Ukip: 16% (+1); Plaid Cymru: 10% (-2); Liberal Democrats: 5% (+1); and the Greens on 2% (-1). But Labour have been in power in Wales for 17 years, and the Tories want to turn the election into a referendum on Labour’s oversight of the NHS.
The police and crime commissioner elections, last held in November 2012 – when they attracted a derisory 15% of the population – will coincide with the local elections. There now seems a cross-party consensus that this new feature is here to stay.
Given that independent parties won 27 % of the total vote, taking 11 of the 42 posts, it will be difficult to read much into how the main parties can gain from this round of elections. But Labour did take only 32% of the vote, and the Conservatives 39%; figures that can be improved on. Corbyn would like to see the figures reversed in what is the only England-and-Wales-based election taking place next spring.
Whatever happens, the appeal of Corbynism will be tested – and the debate about his electability will no longer be a matter of opinion, but a matter of evidence.
Labour has withdrawn its support for plans to force future governments to keep a budget surplus, prompting anger among some of its MPs.
Shadow chancellor John McDonnell told MPs they would oppose the chancellor's plan in Wednesday's vote, despite previously saying they would back it.
He said it would "underline our position as an anti-austerity party".
Former shadow chancellor Chris Leslie criticised the U-turn and said Labour should set out its own motion.
The BBC's Eleanor Garnier said some at the meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party reacted in fury at the decision.
Some at Monday night's meeting also called the situation a "shambles", our correspondent added.
Follow rolling text and video coverage of all the day's political developments
"To go from one extreme to the other is wrong in economic terms but also it sends the wrong message to the general public as well," Mr Leslie told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.
"I think to be fair to John McDonnell this is a very difficult balancing act, it's a very difficult topic, but it's incredibly important that he is clear and consistent and explains fully not just what Labour's position is but also why he backed George Osborne's surplus a couple of weeks ago and is now against it apparently."
'Calm down'
One of leader Jeremy Corbyn's allies, shadow international development secretary Diane Abbott, said some in the party were "only slowly coming to terms with the fact that Jeremy won" the leadership contest.
She said the row over Mr McDonnell's change of heart was "a process story" and said most of the Parliamentary Labour Party were comfortable with the position being taken.
"I suspect my colleagues, on reflection, will calm down," she added.
Chancellor George Osborne said Labour's policy was a "grave threat to the economic security of working people".
The turnaround comes two weeks after Mr McDonnell pledged support for Mr Osborne's plans, saying Labour were not "deficit deniers", at the Labour Party conference.
MPs will debate and vote on Mr Osborne's Charter for Budget Responsibility on Wednesday.
The charter would legally prevent future governments from spending more than they receive in tax revenue when the economy is growing.
The proposal commits the government to keep debt falling as a share of GDP each year and achieve a budget surplus by 2019-20. Governments will then be required to ensure there is a surplus in "normal times".
It was a long and difficult meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party. One MP said it was the worst they had ever been to.
Jeremy Corbyn was apparently "read the riot act" and said nothing. Another described it as lacking "any aspect of democratic politics".
A former shadow cabinet member told me that it was "without doubt one of the most heated" PLPs and "passions were running high". Others were clearly outraged at the shadow chancellor's change of plan.
As he left the meeting, former cabinet minister Ben Bradshaw branded it a "total shambles".
John Mann MP was furious; he shouted so loudly at the party's leadership that he was easily audible in the corridor outside.
Despite that anger, a spokesman for Mr Corbyn said the meeting had been "warm and friendly" claiming the only disagreement had been on the need for there to be more discussion on the issue.
It all shows the seriousness of the cracks within the party and many in Labour will worry about how much worse it could all get.
But on Monday, Mr McDonnell said there was a "growing reaction" to the "nature and scale" of public spending cuts, which had prompted the change of position.
"We will underline our position as an anti-austerity party by voting against the charter on Wednesday," he said.
"Labour will set out our plan for tackling the deficit, not through punishing the most vulnerable and decimating our public services but by ending the unfair tax cuts to the wealthy, tackling tax evasion and investing for growth."
Mr Leslie said Labour should set out its own motion in response to Mr Osborne's plan.
"We certainly shouldn't be ideologically wedded as George Osborne wants to be to having a surplus regardless of what's happening to the economy and public services," he said.
"But I don't think it is right either to be ideologically wedded against the idea of a surplus.
"Sometimes a surplus is necessary and can be a good thing."
Mr Osborne said Labour's economic policy had "lurched from chaos to incredibility".
"Two weeks ago ?they said they were going to vote for a surplus - now we know they want to keep on borrowing forever. That would be a grave threat to the economic security of working people?," he said.
At the weekend, SNP leader and Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon challenged Labour to join her party in voting against the charter.
Welcoming the U-turn, Angus Robertson, SNP leader at Westminster, said it was "promising" but added it was "disgraceful there has had to be any doubt that the Labour Party would oppose Tory cuts".
He said the vote would be a major test for Jeremy Corbyn's leadership, claiming Labour's credibility "would be in ruins" unless every one of its MPs voted against the charter.
The independent Office for Budget Responsibility would be responsible for policing the new rules.
It would also have the power to decide when the government should be able to spend more than it is taking in revenue - for example, when the country is in a recession.
The “new politics” will soon be less a slogan than a punchline. Among political anoraks it’s already happened. Dare to offer a disparaging remark, even about the weather, and the rebuke comes instantly: “Come, come, it’s the new politics now.”
Jeremy Corbyn’s plea for a kinder, more civil conversation is only part of it, of course. The new politics also stands, in an amorphous way, for a combination of the following: insurgent movements outside the Westminster bubble, especially those whose activists are young; a disdain for the tired techniques of professional political communication; and the solid conviction that, whatever the polls and pundits might say, electoral earthquakes are possible.
Exhibit A in the Corbynite case for the new politics, cited repeatedly through his summer campaign for the Labour leadership, is the Scottish National party. The SNP and its virtual clean sweep of Scottish seats in Westminster on 7 May are held to be proof positive that rebel campaigns can score big, defying every rule in that hated manual, How to Win Elections by T Blair.
But a visit to the SNP conference under way in Aberdeen suggests that, while the party might indeed be masters of the new politics, they’re pretty skilful at the old politics too. On display here, as it has been for the best part of the last decade, is a sleek political machine – coherent, disciplined and organised. Those Blair-era techniques so despised by the Corbynites are practised by the Nats with unbending self-control. The “message discipline”, a stricture once associated with Peter Mandelson and his army of pager-wearing MPs, is striking: few stray from the agreed lines. (Though one party veteran insists this unity of script is entirely “voluntary”, that activists take their cue from the top without needing to be told.)
True, there was a setback for the leadership on the issue of land reform, but plenty of the resolutions debated in Aberdeen verge on the North Korean, several opening with variations on “Conference commends the SNP Scottish government …” Noticeably, most of the motions are proposed and seconded not by unruly grassroots activists – no Corbyn-style crowdsourcing here – but members of the SNP’s parliamentary delegations, whether at Westminster or Holyrood.
There are no U-turns here to compare with John McDonnell’s volte-face this week on the fiscal charter, one he had to admit before a baying House of Commons was “embarrassing, embarrassing, embarrassing, embarrassing, embarrassing”. If there are arguments at the top of the SNP, no one hears them. Instead, when the nationalist leadership makes a sound, it speaks with a single voice.
Often literally. Nicola Sturgeon’s command over her party is total, to the extent that one senior figure admits – very privately – that there is “a wee niggle” about the leader’s dominance, noting how statements on departmental matters are not left to the relevant minister but delivered by Sturgeon herself. Arguments over questions of policy are sometimes settled, my source tells me, by a declaration that “The first minister has made very clear …” Jeremy Corbyn may define leadership as listening, but apparently Sturgeon didn’t get that memo.
The contrast with the current management of the UK Labour party could not be sharper – and the SNP likes it that way. Any initial worries that a leftward tilt under Corbyn might woo back Labour defectors have fast melted away. One of that new, 50-plus band of nationalist MPs, the economist George Kerevan, says Scots have watched Corbyn’s shaky start, noted his lack of support among his own MPs, and concluded that his leadership is both “untenable” and a “short-term prospect” – not one, in other words, that will tempt many back to Labour.
The SNP’s former leader and Scotland’s current finance minister, John Swinney, is even more direct. “They look at Jeremy Corbyn’s Labour party and it’s disorganised and chaotic,” he told me. “People who are looking for a movement that is organised, coherent and radical – that’s us.”
How has the SNP pulled it off? A small part of the answer is mechanical. Swinney takes credit for internal party reforms that remedied what he calls the “confused structures” of the past. Sounds inoffensive, but a process of streamlining that gave more power to the leader and would have been called “control freakery” back in Blair’s day.
Party unity has been aided too by the healing of what used to be the defining rift in Scottish nationalism. Once the party was divided between gradualists, moving towards independence in increments, and fundamentalists, who demanded full sovereignty now. Gradualism has clearly won that argument, vindicated first by devolution, next by the steady acquisition of greater powers and, most visibly, by successive electoral triumphs.
Those have acted as an almost annual dose of adrenaline, pumping new energy into the veins of the SNP – whose membership has expanded to 114,000, making it the third largest party in the UK. The SNP currently polls ahead of its rivals by 30 points, a margin unmatched in the democratic world. In that context, who would argue with Sturgeon’s declaration that the next referendum should not be rushed, but that the SNP should wait until it’s clear it will win?
Surely it’s this that explains the coherence and cohesion of the SNP. It is unified by its pursuit of a goal so simple it can be expressed in a single word: independence. Not many political parties have such clarity of purpose.
You can put that negatively, observing that the nationalists are bound by the glue of a common enemy, one easily blamed for any shortcoming or disappointment. No wonder Sturgeon, Swinney and Alex Salmond march in lockstep: whatever differences they may have with one another are dwarfed by their loathing of London. Or you can describe it positively: the SNP walk together because they are guided by a north star so bright no one can miss it.
But that’s not the whole story. Swinney was right: the SNP’s appeal is that it’s both organised in its methods and radical in its offer. That’s down to the unique position it occupies, simultaneously the majority party in a country and a movement campaigning for self-rule. It gets to be both the incumbent, steady and dependable, in Edinburgh; and the insurgent, setting off fireworks, in Westminster – both government and national liberation movement. It’s both Swinney, the bespectacled technocrat described by Kerevan as a “fiscal conservative”, and Mhairi Black, the 20-year-old anti-austerity activist – at the same time. That’s quite a sweet spot.
Up against that, Labour scarcely has a prayer. When it knew how to make the trains run on time, back in the Blair-Brown era, it seemed managerial. Now that it’s proclaiming its values again, under Corbyn, it’s coming off the rails. The SNP, meanwhile, glides relentlessly forward, claiming both competence and principle, barely an obstacle in its path.
Jeremy Corbyn will attempt to challenge the Chinese on their human rights record when he attends a state banquet to be held by the Queen for the country’s president, Xi Jinping, next week.
There had been speculation that Corbyn, as a republican, might send a substitute to the banquet but Labour has since confirmed he will attend Buckingham Palace for the ceremonial dinner.
A spokesman for the Labour leader said: “He will be using the opportunity next week to raise the issue of human rights. There are meetings being discussed, and if he gets private meetings he will be raising it at those meetings. That is the right thing to do.”
It is Corbyn’s first invitation to a Buckingham Palace state dinner in his role as leader of the opposition. He was unable to make a previous visit to the royal residence to be sworn in to the privy council, although he is expected to do so soon to receive classified security briefings.
Since becoming Labour leader, Corbyn has taken a strong stance on the raising of human rights abuses with other states, and successfully pressed David Cameron to drop a prisons deal with Saudi Arabia.
China has been criticised by campaigners for jailing critics of its communist government, media censorship and restricting personal freedom. However, George Osborne stressed economic issues, rather than human rights, when he visited China for a trade trip last month.
The chancellor said at the time: “This is primarily an economic and financial dialogue. We are two completely different political systems and we raise human rights issues, but I don’t think that is inconsistent with also wanting to do more business with one-fifth of the world’s population.”
The Global Times, a Chinese state-run newspaper, praised Osborne for being “the first western official in recent years who focused on business potential rather than raising a magnifying glass to the ‘human rights issue’”.
Osborne had been urged to raise the persecution of the Uighur minority during his trip to the Xinjiang capital, Urumqi, a year after a court in the city imprisoned the government critic Ilham Tohti for life on charges of inciting separatism.
Kate Allen, UK director of Amnesty International, criticised the chancellor’s failure to mention Tohti’s case and “sending the signal that the UK is willing to compromise its human rights values”.
The UK supported an EU statement that raised concerns about China’s detention of more than 100 activists and lawyers in July and called for their release.
Hugo Swire, a Foreign Office minister, said last month he “remains concerned by the restrictions placed on Christianity in China”, citing the closure or demolition of churches, removal of crosses from buildings, and reports that individuals are harassed or detained for practising their beliefs.
Ex-Labour health minister Lord Warner has said the party doesn't have a "hope in hell" of winning power under Jeremy Corbyn after he resigned the whip in protest at the party's direction.
The peer told the BBC Labour faced an "existential threat" and was "anything other than a government in waiting".
He also took a swipe at the system used to elect Mr Corbyn, describing it as "bizarre and unacceptable".
Lord Warner has insisted he will not defect to another party.
Labour sources told BBC political editor Laura Kuenssberg the resignation was "ego-driven" and Lord Prescott said Lord Warner was "no great loss".
Lord Warner served in Tony Blair's government and was made health minister in 2003, before leaving government in 2007.
In his resignation letter to Mr Corbyn, first reported in the Guardian, he wrote that he had resigned the Labour whip in the Lords and cancelled his party membership after concluding Mr Corbyn was "highly unlikely" to win back lost Labour voters.
"I have watched for some time the declining quality of the Labour Party's leadership but had not expected the calamitous decline achieved in 2015," he wrote.
In a direct attack on Mr Corbyn, who won an overwhelming victory in the Labour leadership contest after the party's general election defeat, he added: "The approach of those around you and your own approach and policies is highly likely to worsen the decline in the Labour Party's credibility."
He said he feared for Labour's future if Mr Corbyn's "supporting activists secure ever greater control of the party's apparatus and processes".
Lord Warner added: "Labour will only win another election with a policy approach that wins back people who have moved to voting Conservative and UKIP, as well as to the Greens and SNP. Your approach is highly unlikely to achieve this shift."
Speaking on Radio 4's Today programme, Lord Warner suggested Labour could be out of power for 15 years without a change in direction.
"If it doesn't change itself very rapidly indeed, it hasn't a hope in hell of winning an election in 2020 or indeed in 2025," he said.
"It has to understand why a large number of people chose to vote for four other parties on 7 May. It hasn't done that re-examination. I want to try and push it to do that and I think the best way I can do that is to make a stand and leave the party."
He said he was not encouraging others to leave the party, was not joining any other party and would continue to be a "traditional, centre left" politician.
On Twitter, former Deputy Prime Minister Lord Prescott said Lord Warner had in the past proposed charging people to use the NHS, adding: "No credibility. No great loss."
And shadow work and pensions secretary Owen Smith suggested the peer had "been leaving us for quite a while".
"He voted with the Tories a couple of years ago, under the last Labour leadership, to privatise parts of the NHS," he told BBC 2's Newsnight. "He is somebody who has advocated charging for the NHS, charging to stay overnight....I'm not sure we will miss him too much."
The Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, has moved to heal the rift with some of his backbenchers, saying he wanted to make clear that he does not favour any move to make it easier to deselect MPs.
He also announced he had appointed Rosie Winterton, the party chief whip, to oversee Labour’s response to the government review of constituency boundaries that will reduce the number of MPs from 650 to 600, as well as see the redrawing of many constituency boundaries – changes that could result in many sitting Labour MPs finding their status under question.
Her appointment is designed to reassure MPs that the boundary review will not be used as an excuse to target MPs who do not support the Labour leader.
Corbyn’s efforts to reassure MPs comes after a disruptive parliamentary party meeting last week, and anger among some MPs that supporters of Corbyn continually use social media to denounce MPs who question his leadership and to threaten deselection. Ben Bradshaw, Mike Gapes and Liz Kendall are among the MPs targeted on Twitter, often with a mixture of threats and offensive language.
The atmosphere has led some MPs to question Momentum, the new social movement born out of the Corbyn campaign that has promised to try to harness the activist energy created by his election as leader. Some of his closest supporters openly advocate efforts to make it easier to deselect Labour MPs by making them subject to automatic reselection.
The scale of the disruption in the boundary review will depend in part on the success of a Labour voter registration drive designed to bring in voters that have fallen off the register in urban Labour-held seats.
The registration drive is critical to Labour’s chances of preventing the Tories becoming the majority party again after the 2020 election. The government has passed a law that requires constituencies to have broadly the same number of voters each – a change that is likely to see a fall in the number of Labour-held seats.
In a statement, Labour said Winterton would be “working very closely with the leader’s office, the deputy leader, Labour’s general secretary, party staff and politicians to shape Labour’s overall approach to this issue”.
Corbyn said: “David Cameron and the Conservative party are trying to rig the constitution for their own political ends.
“They want to reduce by 50 the number of directly elected members of parliament under the guise of reducing the cost of politics, whilst cramming the Lords full with their unelected friends and donors at the taxpayer’s expense.
“I am delighted that Rosie Winterton has agreed to lead Labour’s work on this important issue. We need a response across the party and parliamentary aspects of what the Tories are planning to do, and Rosie Winterton will ensure that this is delivered in a consensual way.
“I wish to make it absolutely crystal clear that I do not support any changes to Labour’s rules to make it easier to deselect sitting Labour MPs.”
Labour general secretary Iain McNicol told a party meeting on Monday night that Momentum had no connection with the party, pointing out that it allowed members from outside the party to be involved. He said Momentum had grown out of the Corbyn election campaign, but by opening itself up to groups and individuals outside appears to have forfeited any official status in the party.
Labour MPs were also told that if their constituency boundaries were redrawn, and 40% of their old constituency was contained in the redrawn constituency they would automatically be put on a selection short list.
In a sign of the frustration at the actions of a minority of Corbyn supporters, Jess Phillips, the MP for Birmingham Yardley, wrote a blogpost for Huffington Post, arguing: “These keyboard warriors and purveyors of badly printed flyers are like a group of kids who shout insults and run off leaving some poor innocent kid dealing with the fallout.
“Shouting at someone to show your loyalty will never ever be as good as having a chat and showing a bit of love. Shouting ‘neoliberal warmonger’ might make you feel clever and superior, but it makes you look a bit of a tit.”
Momentum insists that its purpose is not to have MPs deselected and its first campaign starting next Saturday will be to increase the number of registered voters.
In a statement, Momentum said its “groups will, where possible, work alongside local, regional and national Labour party efforts, as well as other interested unions and organisations, on the national day of action and in subsequent local efforts”.
Explaining the choice of Democracy SOS as Momentum’s first national campaign, Emma Rees, one of the organisers, said: “Jeremy Corbyn’s campaign for Labour leader put forward a new kind of politics, a politics that engaged with those shut out from the political system, promising more participatory democracy.
“Claiming your right to vote is a major step in politicisation, to further action at community and national level. And so, we thought that Democracy SOS was a natural choice as Momentum’s first national campaign.”
Labour has denied that constituency boundary changes could be used as an excuse to deselect some of its own MPs in favour of more left-wing candidates.
Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell said there was "no way" this would happen and existing rules would apply.
But one former shadow minister said he feared the review could be "the means to remove MPs whose faces don't fit".
And veteran Labour MP Frank Field said there could be a revolt in the party if colleagues were "unfairly treated".
The boundaries used to elect MPs in May, which date back to 2005, will be reviewed ahead of the next election, scheduled to take place in 2020.
They could look very different by the time the changes are published in 2018 because of the reduction in the number of seats from 650 to 600.
Analysis for the BBC's Sunday Politics - based on the latest boundary proposals from 2012 - suggests that MPs including Liam Byrne, Chris Leslie and Tristram Hunt on the right of the party could face significant changes to their current seats.
Of the 206 seats Labour currently holds in England, only 36 would remain unchanged, while 54 constituencies are likely to change by more than 40%.
The figure is more than double the proportion of Tory seats affected. From their 319 seats only 41 face similar pressure on their boundaries.
The current Labour rules, introduced in 2013, state that an MP with a substantial territorial interest in a new constituency may seek selection as a matter of right - a substantial territorial interest is defined as 40% or more of the previous constituency.
The BBC's political correspondent Ellie Price said she had been told by Labour's National Executive Committee that there were no plans to change existing rules but many MPs on the right of the party remain concerned.
Their fears were not allayed by the appointment of Seumas Milne as Jeremy Corbyn's new director of strategy and communications. A few weeks before he took on the job, he seemed to suggest boundary changes might offer an opportunity to select some different Labour members.
Simon Danczuk. the MP for Rochdale who has suggested he could launch a leadership challenge to Mr Corbyn if Labour performs badly in next May's elections, told the Sunday Politics: "I think my colleagues are right to be worried about this. There has been an influx of people joining the party, some of them probably expelled in years gone by.
"Many will certainly be on the left of the party. They will be Jeremy Corbyn supporters and they will be making a decision because of boundary changes. And it's fair to say they may not pick more moderate MPs like myself."
Frank Field, who saw off attempts by his own party to deselect him in the 1980s, said any kind of change would have real ramifications.
"There will be a large group I would hope in Parliament of MPs who will, if colleagues are unfairly treated, encourage their colleagues to stand in by-elections, to stand as independent candidates and a large number of us including myself, would go and actually campaign for them.
"It's a capital offence to campaign for somebody standing against a Labour candidate but if enough of us go they can't pick all of us off and expel the lot."
Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell told the BBC's Andrew Marr that Mr Corbyn had made it clear that the existing rules for selecting MPs ahead of general elections would not be reviewed.
"We are opposing any threat to individual MPs," he said. "We are not in favour of reselection of these MPs. The democratic processes in the Labour Party will take place in the boundary commission in the normal way.
"There is no way we will allow MPs to be deselected in that way. We will work together on this."
But Mr McDonnell suggested MPs were already being "radicalised" and they would have to be "accountable" to new supporters who joined the party in large numbers in the past six months and helped propel Mr Corbyn to victory as well as older members.
Lord Grabiner has become the second peer in recent days to resign the Labour whip in the Lords.
The barrister and master of Clare College Cambridge will remain a party member but will sit as a crossbencher.
He told the Times Jeremy Corbyn's proposals were "terribly damaging".
It comes five days after former junior health minister Lord Warner resigned the Labour whip, saying the party did not have a "hope in hell" of winning power under its new leader.
Lord Grabiner said Labour was now in "disarray" and that he could not "square [staying] with my conscience".
He added: "I have nothing in common whatever with Mr Corbyn and I don't believe we are ever going to win an election."
He also said he was particularly concerned about John McDonnell's appointment as shadow chancellor.
"I am concerned with the economic stuff. I am really concerned with the shadow chancellor," he declared.
Former Labour cabinet minister Lord Mandelson has also criticised Mr Corbyn. Speaking on the BBC's Week in Westminster programme, he said the Labour leader was not "growing into the job at all".
Mr Corbyn was not showing "any professionalism in his leadership of the Labour party", and had made poor choices in his appointment of senior staff in his team, he said.
A Labour spokesman said of the peer: "We welcome Tony's continued membership and support of the party.
"We know he has been increasingly busy and less able to attend the Lords to participate in House business and we of course understand his decision to relinquish the Labour whip".
The spokesman also said Lord Grabiner had not voted in the Lords since 2013.
A Labour MP has said he will try to oust Jeremy Corbyn as leader if the party flops in May’s devolved and local elections.Simon Danczuk, one of Corbyn’s most vocal internal critics, said he would seek to stand as a “stalking horse” to force a contest.He said his aim would be to open the door to colleagues such as Chuka Umunna, Dan Jarvis and Emma Reynolds to mount a challenge and “give us some chance of winning the next general election”.
But any challenger would face a stiff test given the dramatic margin of Corbyn’s victory in September, especially among the tens of thousands of new party recruits enthused by his anti-austerity message.
The Rochdale MP – who would have to secure the backing of 46 of the party’s 231 MPs – told the Mail on Sunday: “If the results for Labour in May are as dire as we all fear, then yes I would be prepared to stand as a stalking horse against Jeremy Corbyn.
“My only intention is to secure a better leader for the Labour party and to give us some chance of winning the next general election. At the moment, I and many of my fellow MPs simply cannot see that happening under the current leadership.
“I do not have any expectation of winning myself, but would hope to open up the field for serious contenders such as Chuka, Dan or Emma.”
Under Labour rules, potential challengers to a sitting leader can seek nominations before the annual session of party conference, with any failing to meet the threshold of 20% of MPs declared “null and void”.
However, the shadow chancellor, John McDonnell, played down the threat of a leadership challenge, dismissing Danczuk’s threat as “Simon being Simon”. Appearing on the BBC1’s Andrew Marr Show, he said that moderate Labour MPs must come to terms with the party’s new direction but that leftwing activists would not be allowed to force them out.
“We are opposing any threat to individual MPs. We are not in favour of reselection,” he said. “The democratic processes in the Labour position will take place in the normal way. There is no way we will allow MPs to be deselected in that way. We will work together on this.”
Veteran MP Frank Field said any moves to deselect sitting MPs could be met by a mass rebellion.
Danczuk’s latest broadside against the leadership came as Ed Miliband’s former policy chief announced he was forming a new group aimed at ensuring the party builds “a broad coalition of support”.
Labour Together is being spearheaded by Jon Cruddas, who wrote a scathing analysis of the party’s general election defeat which concluded that anti-austerity policies were a vote loser.
The MP nominated Corbyn for the leadership to broaden the debate but warned during the contest he could turn the party into a 1980s revival “Trotskyist tribute act” and said his diagnosis was “at odds with where the country is”.
He said the group – which also involves shadow energy secretary Lisa Nandy, MP Steve Reed and the leaders of Leeds and Newcastle councils – would “work with members who supported any of the four leadership candidates and with organisations across the spectrum of the Labour movement”.
The launch comes at a time of fears among some moderates that the Corbyn-aligned Momentum group will be a vehicle for a takeover of the party by the left, including deselections of MPs – a charge denied by its founders.
Corbyn said: “I welcome Labour Together as a good initiative that explores a new kind of way to do politics. I am looking forward to working with them.”
In the latest of a series of highly critical articles about Corbyn in the Mail on Sunday, Danczuk said he was guilty of “a profound lack of judgment and naivety” and was “on such a short ideological tether he’s never going to reach out beyond activists”.
He said the leader – who called him in for talks this week to discuss his public criticisms – was “warm, well-meaning and sincere” with a “refreshing openness”.
“But, unfortunately, politics is about much more than that. And as someone who desperately wants a Labour government, we need a leader who can win a general election, not parliamentary beard of the year.
“He is unsuited to leading a major political party and the sooner we get a Labour leader who is, the better.”
Labour MPs who repeatedly defy Jeremy Corbyn by voting against the party’s agreed position in the House of Commons should face a reselection challenge in their constituencies, Ken Livingstone has said.
In marked contrast to the leadership, which insisted it has no plans to force through reselection of parliamentary candidates, the former London mayor said it was right to remodel the party at Westminster to take account of Corbyn’s victory.
Livingstone, who has been a close ally of Corbyn for three decades, told the Sunday Politics on BBC1: “If your local MP is undermining Jeremy Corbyn, opposing the anti-austerity measures that we want, people should have a right to say: ‘I’d like to have an MP who reflects my view.’ It shouldn’t be a job for life.”
The intervention by Livingstone, which contrasted with a more emollient tone by the shadow chancellor, John McDonnell, came as the Labour backbencher Simon Danczuk said he was prepared to stand against Corbyn as a stalking horse if the party suffers setbacks in the May elections. Livingstone cited the remarks to the Mail on Sunday by Danczuk, who is a marginal figure in the parliamentary party, as he spoke of how Labour MPs who defy Corbyn could face challenges in their constituencies.
The former London mayor responded in the affirmative when asked whether he agreed that Labour MPs who regularly defy the party whip should expect to face a reselection process. He said: “If you’ve got 1,000 new members join your local party because they supported Jeremy Corbyn’s policies, you’ve got an MP completely undermining that, that’s fine. They should have the right to challenge that. It doesn’t mean to say they will necessarily win.”
The shadow chancellor sought to reassure those MPs by denying that Momentum, a new group set up by supporters of Corbyn and backed by the leadership, will be used to deselect MPs who disagree with the leadership. McDonnell told the Andrew Marr Show: “We are opposing any threat to individual MPs. We are not in favour of reselection of these MPs. The democratic processes in the Labour party will take place on the boundary commission in the normal way.”
McDonnell said that Corbyn had told a recent meeting of the parliamentary Labour party that there would be no change to the existing rules on the selection of MPs. “There is no way that we will allow MPs to be deselected in that way,” McDonnell said. “We will work together on this.”
But the remarks by Livingstone fuelled suspicions among Labour MPs who oppose Corbyn’s leadership say they fear that his supporters in the new Momentum group will try to oust them as candidates in the run-up to the next general election. They say that redrawing the parliamentary boundaries, as part of plans to shrink the size of the Commons from 650 MPs to 600, will provide the perfect opportunity to move against some Labour MPs.
Under the Labour rules for boundary changes, existing MPs have the right to be reselected for a new seat if they can claim a “substantial territorial interest” of at least 40% in the new seat.
But Sunday Politics reported that reselection battles could be triggered under the current rules in many of the 206 Labour-held seats in England. Just 36 will remain unchanged while in 54 of the seats the proposed boundary changes will be larger than 40% of the territory of the constituency, potentially opening them up to new candidates. Liam Byrne, Tristram Hunt and Chris Leslie, former shadow cabinet ministers who are now on the backbenches, are all named as MPs who could face constituency battles.
Labour opponents of Corbyn have highlighted an interview by Seumas Milne, the Guardian columnist who takes over as Labour’s executive director of strategy and communications on Tuesday, who suggested that the redrawing of the boundaries would provide an opportunity to “recalibrate” the parliamentary party.
In an interview on Russia Today, Milne said: “The Tories are planning to bring in new boundaries for constituencies around the country. That will mean there will have to be reselections, there will have to be new selection procedures to pick Labour candidates for those constituencies.
“On all sorts of issues Labour MPs are actually out of kilter with public opinion although they talk about electability all the time. So there needs to be some recalibration of that and I think that will happen but not in a kind of bloodbath way and certainly not in the immediate future.”
Milne’s interview was recorded during the Labour conference, before he had agreed to take up his new post with Labour. His key message was to play down the idea of a purge of MPs opposed to Corbyn.
But Frank Field, the former Labour welfare reform minister who nominated Corbyn to promote a debate within the party, said he would be prepared to break Labour rules to support any ousted MPs who stand as independents. He told Sunday Politics: “Now that’s a capital offence – a campaign for somebody standing against an official Labour candidate – but if enough of us go they can’t pick all of us off and expel the lot.”
Martin Amis has described Jeremy Corbyn as “undereducated”, “incurious” and “humourless” in a scathing condemnation of the new Labour leader.
Writing for the Sunday Times yesterday, Amis said that Corbyn, who won the Labour leadership race last month, was the “fluky beneficiary of a drastic elevation”. Highlighting the politician’s two E-grade A-levels, Amis called him “undereducated”, adding: “In general, his intellectual CV gives an impression of slow-minded rigidity; and he seems essentially incurious about anything beyond his immediate sphere.”
Supporters were quick to leap to Corbyn’s defence on social media, pointing out that neither Winston Churchill nor Nye Bevan, who presided over the birth of the welfare state, had excelled at school.
Amis, the son of the novelist Kingsley Amis, went to Oxford University, where he graduated with a first-class degree in English Literature.
Corbyn’s views, according to Amis, are “pallidly third-hand”, and he “is without the slightest grasp of the national character – an abysmal deficit for any politician, let alone a torchbearer”. The leftwing novelist highlighted Corbyn’s proposal to scrap the army, made in 2012, which would be “a veritable spear through the British soul”, he writes.
The Labour leader is also “humourless”, said Amis – something highlighted by journalists “in a tone of wry indulgence”, but which is actually “an extremely grave accusation, imputing as it does a want of elementary nous”.
Although the novelist allowed that while Corbyn possesses the “demerits – the encysted dogmas – of the old left”, he also “gawkily embodies one of its noblest themes: the search for something a bit better than what exists today: more equal, more gentle, more just”, he failed to see a rosy future for the Labour party under his leadership.
Amis predicted that under Corbyn, the Labour party would devolve “into a leftist equivalent of the American GOP: hopelessly retrograde, self-absorbed, self-pitying and self-righteous, quite unembarrassed by it (years-long) tantrum, necessarily and increasingly hostile to democracy, and in any sane view undeserving of a single vote”.
Former Labour MP for Derby North, Chris Williamson, tweeting: “Martin Amis would do well to remember that Nye Bevan left school at 13 and went on to create the NHS,” while the comedian David Schneider tweeted: “Martin Amis is right. Corbyn’s bad exam results rule him out as PM. Like that other failure at school: Churchill. Thank God he was never PM.” The poet Michael Rosen, meanwhile, tweeted: “Hoping that Labour listen to Martin Amis and make an Oxbridge degree a necessary qualification for leadership of Labour.”
The author of novels including London Fields, Money, and most recently The Zone of Interest, Amis has never shied away from controversy, calling the Royal family “philistines” in an interview with a French magazine and saying that he “would prefer not to be English”. He also engaged in a lengthy and public row with the academic Terry Eagleton about Islam, after he said in an interview: “There’s a definite urge – don’t you have it? – to say, ‘The Muslim community will have to suffer until it gets its house in order
Shadow culture secretary Michael Dugher has been sacked by Jeremy Corbyn, as the Labour leader's reshuffle begins.
Mr Dugher, who has been critical of Mr Corbyn's leadership, announced the move in a tweet.
More changes to Mr Corbyn's top team are expected later - but the BBC understands shadow foreign secretary Hilary Benn will keep his job.
Shadow defence secretary Maria Eagle has been told that she will be moved, but won't be demoted, a source said.
A shadow cabinet meeting planned for around 12:45 GMT has been cancelled as Mr Corbyn continues to finalise the changes to his team.
Mr Dugher - who ran Andy Burnham's leadership campaign - said Mr Corbyn had told him he did not like the things he had been writing. Mr Dugher said he had felt compelled to speak out about colleagues who were being briefed against.
The sacking of the Barnsley East MP, a close ally of former leader Gordon Brown who is known for his combative style, has been met with dismay by senior Labour figures.
Shadow defence minister Toby Perkins said: "Sad to hear this, always effective at putting Tories on the back foot, something we need to do more of."
Labour deputy leader Tom Watson said: "Michael Dugher is a rare politician - a talented working-class MP who hasn't lost his strong Yorkshire roots.
"Politicians with his ability and commitment can make a difference in any role. Labour's loss in the shadow cabinet will be compensated by Michael's free thought on the backbenches."
Mr Corbyn held lengthy talks with Mr Benn and Ms Eagle on Monday night, but both declined to comment on what had been said.
Mr Benn grabbed headlines with a Commons speech in favour of RAF air strikes in Syria - directly opposing Mr Corbyn's view - and Ms Eagle supports the renewal of the UK's Trident nuclear weapons.
A further nine shadow cabinet members voted for air strikes after Mr Corbyn was forced to allow a free vote.
There was talk of a "revenge" reshuffle, with key jobs handed to Mr Corbyn's supporters from the left of the party to allow Labour to speak with a more unified voice.
But the scope of any changes appears to have been scaled back, amid speculation of a revolt among Labour MPs if senior "moderates" were sacked.
Ken Livingstone denied Mr Corbyn had "bottled" his reshuffle.
The former London mayor, an ally of Mr Corbyn, said he did not believe the Labour leader had ever intended to sack Mr Benn and speculation about his future had been whipped up by the media.
He also suggested Mr Benn's position had become more secure because he had "stopped being quite so critical and dissident".
Shadow foreign secretary Hilary Benn has denied being "muzzled" after surviving Jeremy Corbyn's reshuffle.
Shadow chancellor John McDonnell said Mr Benn had agreed not to disagree with the leader from the front bench.
But Mr Benn said he would be carrying on with his job "exactly as before".
Meanwhile, some MPs reacted angrily to Pat McFadden's sacking as Europe spokesman for what Mr McDonnell called "issues about loyalty" and the party's rail spokesman resigned.
The only changes in the shadow cabinet see anti-Trident MP Emily Thornberry replacing shadow defence secretary Maria Eagle, who moves to culture to replace sacked Michael Dugher.
BBC political editor Laura Kuenssberg said three other resignations were likely to follow shadow rail minister Jonathan Reynolds, who quit saying he wanted the freedom to speak from the backbenches.
In his resignation letter, Mr Reynolds also backed comments by Mr McFadden in the aftermath of the Paris terror attacks, which he has blamed for his sacking.
Mr McFadden attacked the response of the Stop the War Coalition, which Mr Corbyn used to chair, to the attacks.
He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme Mr Corbyn had told him he thought his comments were "an attack on him and that he had come to the conclusion because of that and one or two other things that I shouldn't continue".
"He clearly feels that me saying terrorists are entirely responsible for their action, that no-one forces anyone to kill innocent people in Paris, to blow up the London Underground, to behead innocent aid workers, that when I say they are entirely responsible for that, he clearly interpreted that as an attack on him," he added.
Mr McDonnell told the BBC there had been "issues about loyalty", saying it was not just about his one statement in the House of Commons.
He told the Today programme Mr McFadden's comments had "played into an agenda which distorted Jeremy's views on how we tackle terrorism".
This had contributed to an "undermining of Jeremy's status", he said.
There had been widespread speculation over the future position of Mr Benn - who backed air strikes in Syria in last month's Commons vote as Mr Corbyn opposed them.
Reshuffles are a test of leaders' authority. So where did Jeremy Corbyn get his way, and where did he not?
He wanted a new face at defence, and he got one by moving Maria Eagle. That will go some way to neutralising brewing rows over renewing nuclear weapons...
Where did Mr Corbyn fail to get his way?
He wasn't able to move his big target, Hilary Benn the shadow foreign secretary. Benn has had to agree he will be less public on issues where the two men disagree. Mr Corbyn has caused more concern and more bad feeling in parts of the parliamentary party over how this whole thing has been handled.
Mr McDonnell said Mr Benn "has recognised the mandate that Jeremy Corbyn has from our members... and he will recognise his leadership on this issue".
The shadow foreign secretary will be entitled to disagree with the leader on matters of conscience like bombing Syria, he said, but would have to do so from the backbenches, rather than as the party spokesman.
Mr Benn is yet to comment on his own situation, but did tweet a message of support to Pat McFadden after his sacking emerged.
Mr McFadden is being replaced by former junior shadow education minister, Pat Glass
There are now 17 women and 14 men in the full shadow cabinet.
Ms Thornberry, the Islington South MP and shadow employment minister, had been tipped to take over from Ms Eagle - who has also been at odds with Mr Corbyn over the future of the UK's Trident nuclear weapons system.
Ms Eagle backs Trident renewal while Mr Corbyn and Ms Thornberry do not.
Elsewhere, Emma Lewell-Buck was promoted to shadow minister for devolution and local government.
MPs Wes Streeting, John Woodcock and Jamie Reed were among those to criticise Mr McFadden's sacking on Twitter.
Labour MP Stephen Kinnock said the party was "going into uncharted territory primarily because we have a leader who over his 30 odd years on the backbenchers voted against the whip 550 times".
Responding to comments by Labour leadership sources he was sacked for "incompetence and disloyalty", Mr Dugher tweeted that he was "not sure it's sensible for the leader and his office to get into a debate about 'loyalty' or 'competence'".
Confirming his own dismissal earlier on Tuesday, Mr Dugher - a former aide to Gordon Brown - said he had "paid the price" for speaking out in defence of colleagues whose reputations he claimed had been "trashed" by aides to Mr Corbyn.
He said the biggest casualty in the reshuffle had been the "new politics", and despite promises from the leader that there would be room for a little dissent, "the truth is that's just not transpired".
The Conservatives dubbed the reshuffle "the longest in history", but allies of Mr Corbyn defended his right to make changes, saying the shadow cabinet had been out of line with the party as a whole on issues such as Syria.
Reshuffles are a test of leaders' authority. So where did Jeremy Corbyn get his way, and where did he not?
He wanted a new face at defence, and he got one by moving Maria Eagle. That will go some way to neutralising brewing rows over renewing nuclear weapons. And he's made it clear that members of the shadow cabinet will have to, perhaps not toe the party line every moment of every day, but at least not jump all over it on a regular basis.
There may still be more than traditional levels of disagreement, but Mr Corbyn has reintroduced an element of the traditional rule, that if you are in the top team, you more or less keep your disagreements private. He has also increased the number of women in the shadow cabinet.
Where did Mr Corbyn fail to get his way?
He wasn't able to move his big target, Hilary Benn the shadow foreign secretary. Benn has had to agree he will be less public on issues where the two men disagree. Mr Corbyn has caused more concern and more bad feeling in parts of the parliamentary party over how this whole thing has been handled.
There have been elements of what can only be described as pantomime in the last 48 hours. And by sacking Pat McFadden, in part because of his views on terrorism, Mr Corbyn risks an internal row in precisely one of the areas where the Labour leader is already vulnerable.
Overall, Mr Corbyn has disappointed and angered many Labour MPs who already had grave doubts about his ability.
One senior figure, who is not what Corbyn's supporters would consider to be a right-winger out to get him, described it to me as a "total disaster". But he has made some of the changes he wanted to make and tried to assert some authority - in the next few months, the question will be: At what cost.
Three Labour MPs have quit the party's front bench in protest at sackings made by Jeremy Corbyn in his reshuffle.
Jonathan Reynolds and Stephen Doughty quit over the sacking of the shadow Europe minister Pat McFadden.
Mr Corbyn fired Mr McFadden over "disloyalty" after he appeared to criticise his stance on terrorism.
Kevan Jones has quit his defence role over Trident after Mr Corbyn replaced pro-nuclear weapons MP Maria Eagle with unilateralist Emily Thornberry.
Shadow foreign secretary Hilary Benn - who also disagrees with Mr Corbyn on key issues including bombing IS targets in Syria - escaped the axe in the shake-up.
He denied he had been "muzzled" by Mr Corbyn after agreeing not to criticise the leader's policy positions from the front bench, saying he would be carrying on with his job "exactly as before".
The only changes in the shadow cabinet see anti-Trident MP Emily Thornberry replacing shadow defence secretary Maria Eagle, who moves to culture to replace sacked Michael Dugher.
But the moves have sparked a string a departures in the junior ranks.
In his resignation letter, Mr Reynolds backed comments by Mr McFadden in the aftermath of the Paris terror attacks, in which he criticised the response of the Stop the War coalition, which Mr Corbyn used to chair.
Mr McFadden said Mr Corbyn had told him he thought his comments were "an attack on him and that he had come to the conclusion because of that and one or two other things that I shouldn't continue".
"He clearly feels that me saying terrorists are entirely responsible for their action, that no-one forces anyone to kill innocent people in Paris, to blow up the London Underground, to behead innocent aid workers, that when I say they are entirely responsible for that, he clearly interpreted that as an attack on him," he added.
Shadow foreign minister Stephen Doughty - announced his resignation on the BBC's Daily Politics - said Mr McFadden had been "singled out for punishment for speaking with honesty and principle".
Kevan Jones who last year clashed with Ken Livingstone, when the anti-nuclear former mayor was put in joint charge of Labour's defence review, said he "respected" Mr Corbyn's view that Britain's nuclear deterrent should be scrapped, but disagreed and could no longer remain as shadow defence minister.
Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell defended the decision to sack Mr McFadden, saying there had been other "issues about loyalty" and it was not just about one Commons statement.
He told the Today programme Mr McFadden's comments had "played into an agenda which distorted Jeremy's views on how we tackle terrorism" and this had contributed to the "undermining of Jeremy's status".
At Prime Minster's Questions, David Cameron said it "speaks volumes" about Mr Corbyn's leadership of Labour that Mr McFadden should be sacked for saying terrorists should be held responsible for their actions and he questioned why Mr Benn had not quit the front bench team.
He then poked fun at Labour through the medium of Shakespeare quotes.
Responding to a question from Stratford-on-Avon Conservative MP Nadhim Zahawi, he said: "There was a moment when it looked like this reshuffle could go into its Twelfth Night. It was a revenge reshuffle so it was going to be As You Like It.
"I think though we can conclude it's turned into something of a Comedy Of Errors, perhaps Much Ado About Nothing? There will be those who worry Love's Labour's Lost."
Mr McFadden is being replaced by former junior shadow education minister, Pat Glass.
There are now 17 women and 14 men in the full shadow cabinet.
Elsewhere, Emma Lewell-Buck was promoted to shadow minister for devolution and local government. MPs Wes Streeting, John Woodcock and Jamie Reed were among those to criticise Mr McFadden's sacking on Twitter.
Responding to comments by Labour leadership sources he was sacked for "incompetence and disloyalty", sacked shadow culture secretary Michael Dugher tweeted that he was "not sure it's sensible for the leader and his office to get into a debate about 'loyalty' or 'competence'".
Confirming his own dismissal earlier on Tuesday, Mr Dugher - a former aide to Gordon Brown - said he had "paid the price" for speaking out in defence of colleagues whose reputations he claimed had been "trashed" by aides to Mr Corbyn.
He said the biggest casualty in the reshuffle had been the "new politics", and despite promises from the leader that there would be room for a little dissent, "the truth is that's just not transpired".
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has finalised his frontbench team by filling posts left vacant after three shadow ministers resigned on Wednesday.
Kevan Jones, Jonathan Reynolds and Stephen Doughty quit in protest at the sacking of shadow cabinet members who were at odds with Mr Corbyn.
Shadow Chancellor, John McDonnell, dismissed the three MPs as being part of "a narrow, right-wing clique".
The moves complete Mr Corbyn's three day reshuffle.
His new appointments are: Kate Hollern, who becomes a shadow defence minister; Jenny Chapman, who becomes a shadow education minister; Jo Stevens becomes shadow prisons minister; Andy McDonald becomes shadow transport minister, Angela Rayner, shadow work and pensions and Fabian Hamilton, shadow foreign affairs.
Mr Jones quit his defence spokesman role over the issue of Trident after Mr Corbyn replaced pro-nuclear weapons MP Maria Eagle with Emily Thornberry, who favours unilateral nuclear disarmament.
Meanwhile, shadow rail minister Jonathan Reynolds and Stephen Doughty, a shadow foreign minister, quit over the sacking of shadow Europe minister Pat McFadden.
Mr Corbyn fired Mr McFadden for "disloyalty" after he appeared to criticise the Labour leader's stance on terrorism.
Mr Corbyn managed to avoid a further spate of resignations that had reportedly been threatened if he had sacked shadow foreign secretary Hilary Benn.
In the end, after a protracted reshuffle, the changes he made saw anti-Trident MP Emily Thornberry replacing shadow defence secretary Maria Eagle, who moved to culture to replace sacked Michael Dugher.
Mr Benn, who disagrees with Mr Corbyn on key issues including bombing IS targets in Syria, denied he had been "muzzled" by Mr Corbyn after reportedly agreeing not to criticise the leader's policy positions from the front bench.
He said he would be carrying on with his job "exactly as before".
Labour advisers from rival camps hovered around each other, awkwardly, in the coffee queue.
One of the frontbenchers who quit rushed along, head down. The only thing some Labour MPs, apparatchiks and shadow ministers going about their business in Parliament today have got in common is the grey bags under their eyes due to a lack of sleep.
In the last four days there have been sackings, resignations, threats of resignations, private frustrations and arguments, and discussions, endless discussions.
Jeremy Corbyn now, finally, has his new team. And it's not even very different to the old one.
It's not clear that the levels of drama really merit four departures, two different names in the shadow cabinet, and a handful of new faces in the shadow frontbench team. There were always going to be disagreements inside Jeremy Corbyn's Labour Party that were more intense than in most political parties, which are realistically, always awkward coalitions.
But this week, bad blood has turned into poison. How did it all go so badly wrong?
Mr Corbyn's supporters deny they were behind the frenzy of prediction that preoccupied the press and much of the Labour Party over the Christmas break about the plans Jeremy Corbyn had for a "revenge reshuffle".
But at the end of last weekend it was clear the leader did want to change his shadow foreign secretary and shadow defence secretary, Hilary Benn and Maria Eagle.
Mr Benn had to be moved after his speech supporting air strikes on Syria, one Corbyn supporter told me - because "there's a time and a place for that kind of theatrics. If his intentions were not to embarrass Corbyn, then what was he doing?"
He and Eagle had to be shifted, some believed, and Corbyn intended to "push his chips to the max".
Some of his supporters also wanted to shift the chief whip, Rosie Winterton and her team, Alan Campbell and Mark Tami. They're not exactly well-known names, but critical to the day-to-day functioning of the Labour Party.
At this stage, I'm also told notes had been taken of the "disloyalties" of Pat McFadden, the now departed shadow Europe minister. The pointed comments of Michael Dugher, the former shadow culture secretary, had also not gone unnoticed by Corbyn's backers.
Having gathered together in Parliament on Monday morning before most MPs returned to Westminster the next day, after lunch the reshuffle was ready to begin.
The intention was not for a huge clearout but for a handful of specific changes that would send a clear message to the rest of the party and give Jeremy Corbyn more control over his party on the issues closest to his heart - international relations and defence.
The plans immediately hit an obstacle. Senior sources suggest the first meeting with the chief whip, Rosie Winterton, on Monday afternoon spelled out the level of resistance to the planned changes.
I'm told she made clear she would resign if the leader fired her team, and that if Hilary Benn were fired, a significant number of the shadow cabinet would walk in protest.
One senior figure told me on Monday night: "The shadow cabinet is almost unified in opposing moving Benn. There will have to be a climbdown or there will be carnage."
Those who might have considered their positions include Andy Burnham, Lucy Powell, Angela and Maria Eagle, and Vernon Coaker. One source claimed as many as 15 junior ministers would go too.
Through the afternoon, several shadow cabinet ministers were asked to come into Parliament or to expect phone calls. But crucially, I'm told even after weeks of speculation over the changes, it was only on Monday afternoon that the viability of the planned changes were discussed outside Mr Corbyn's supporters.
One senior figure described it as "the first time Jeremy Corbyn has started to work out there are consequences".
No surprise perhaps that hours and hours of difficult conversations, including a meeting of more than an hour between Mr Corbyn and Mr Benn, reached no conclusion.
It had been made plain to him the most significant of the changes he wanted to make would face a huge backlash, and he didn't appear to want to go fully ahead. Just before 10pm his spokesman told me there had been long discussions and soundings, with "announcements to come in due course".
At midnight on Monday however, sources in the rest of the shadow cabinet were sure of the shape of the changes - Mr Corbyn would not sack Hilary Benn, he wanted to sack Michael Dugher, and move Maria Eagle to the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, with Emily Thornberry a possible - if controversial - replacement for her at defence.
Mid-morning on Tuesday, the first actual sacking was revealed. Not by the leader's office, but by Michael Dugher himself, tweeting that he had been sacked.
Rather than silently await their fate, or actual announcements from Team Corbyn, nine members of the shadow cabinet praised him, lamenting his loss on social media.
As the hours ticked by towards David Cameron's statement on Europe in the Commons - when he was to announce a significant climbdown on the EU - it still seemed the announcement of the expected changes would happen at any moment.
Surely, the leader's office wouldn't allow the front bench to take their seats without knowing if they'd still be allowed to sit there for very much longer? But that is exactly what happened.
On the way to the statement one shadow cabinet minister joked to me: "Whoever gets to the front bench in time keeps their job."
The Labour front bench sat together, but tense and stony throughout.
It still seemed like the most likely outcome would be a move for Maria Eagle, Mr Benn staying put, and probably Emily Thornberry into defence. But as the hours ticked by and there was no signal from the leader's office, rumours ran wild.
One shadow cabinet member said to me, "It seemed like it was on, then it was off."
In the end, it was not until Parliament's cleaning staff had had to vacuum around those gathered reporters, after midnight, that the first announcement came - the sacking of Pat McFadden as shadow Europe minister.
The bitter backlash of the moves followed on Wednesday morning. Three junior shadow ministers departing in protest, on TV, on radio and Facebook.
Spats broke out in public and in private over the deal that had really been agreed with Hilary Benn.
Claims that he'd agreed to swallow his criticisms of Mr Corbyn, although he insisted that nothing had changed. Accusations made by both sides that they were misrepresenting the facts. Not then until Thursday morning that the last of the names emerged with the final shape of Mr Corbyn's new team. And without a polygraph, it is impossible to tell exactly what really happened.
But what is clear is that the last few days will have a lasting impact on the Labour Party. There were only minor moves in number, but the consequences could be major.
Reshuffles are a test of any political leader's authority. And while it sounds a contradiction, Jeremy Corbyn's performance has been, at once, both feeble and strong.
Strong in that he achieved his aim of a new face at defence, partly neutralising a future row over the nuclear deterrent by putting a fellow opponent of Trident in charge.
Forceful in sacking two effective Westminster operators, Michael Dugher and Pat McFadden, who disagreed with him and were willing to say so. He increased the number of women in the shadow cabinet too, and now has a team that reflects better his positions.
Yet the Labour leader found he did not have the clout to drive through all the changes he wanted. The political pantomime has exposed again his team's lack of experience in just getting things done.
And that handling, the days of concern and chaos, have deepened the hostility between Mr Corbyn and some Labour MPs - accelerating perhaps the move towards a narrower political platform from where, recent history suggests, elections are harder to win.
And in sacking Michael Dugher and Pat McFadden, two of Labour's canniest political operators are on the backbenches with more time to spare.
Given the hostility to Mr Corbyn's leadership among his MPs, and the hopes of some that he could be removed, that in itself is a risk.
But the last few days may simply serve to widen the gap between Mr Corbyn's supporters in Westminster and beyond and most of the Parliamentary party - summed up balefully by one member of the shadow cabinet as the "weak fighting the weak".
Reshuffles are rarely clean, but this noisy, messy few days demonstrates that right now, Labour is a party struggling to come to terms with itself, and consumed by its own divisions.
Until that changes, the chances of the public giving Labour another chance seem slim indeed.
A series of foul-mouthed posts have been published on Jeremy Corbyn's Twitter feed following the apparent hacking of the Labour leader's account.
The infiltration began shortly after 21:00 GMT, and at least four messages were broadcast to his 384,000 followers.
One mocked Prime Minister David Cameron by stating: "davey cameron is a pie".
Mr Corbyn's team quickly regained control of the @jeremycorbyn account and the offending tweets were deleted.
The Labour leader mostly tweets about party policy so the first of the hacked messages, which began "Here we... here we..." and contained three exclamation marks, would have alerted his followers to the fact that something was not quite right.
A minute later, the hacker posted the message about Mr Cameron, followed almost immediately by one which poked fun at Mr Corbyn's opposition to the Trident nuclear missile programme.
Labour remains "strong and determined" despite the internal turmoil of recent weeks, Jeremy Corbyn has said.
The party leader added he was "happy" with his shadow cabinet after last week's reshuffle, which had brought greater "diversity" to his front bench.
One of those sacked, Pat McFadden, had "distorted" his views on terrorism and the Paris attacks, Mr Corbyn added.
He also said party members would have a say on whether to back renewal of the UK's nuclear weapons programme.
Parliament is expected to vote later this year on whether to give the go-ahead for a new generation of submarines to carry the Trident missiles.
Mr Corbyn - who opposes Trident but faces opposition within Labour to changing the party's pro-Trident policy - told BBC Radio 4's Today programme a serious debate was needed on the purpose of nuclear weapons in the 21st Century and what role "Britain could play in bringing about a nuclear-free world".
Asked whether he would have to go if Labour's policy to renew Trident did not, he replied: "You are creating a crisis that does not exist.
Labour had an existing policy, Mr Corbyn said.
But he also had "a mandate I received as leader".
"Renewing Trident fundamentally goes against the spirit of the non-proliferation treaty," he said.
But the policy would be reviewed by the shadow cabinet and Labour's National Executive.
And that review would be "comprehensive" and would consider the "protection of skills and jobs".
"I want the members to have a big say," Mr Corbyn added.
But the National Executive would decide whether that would be through a vote at Labour's annual conference or a ballot of all members.
"Let's get the debate out there first," Mr Corbyn said.
He did not say whether he would attend an anti-Trident rally next month, adding: "Let's see what happens."
In his first major broadcast interview since last week's reshuffle, Mr Corbyn defended his changes, which saw pro-Trident former defence spokesmen Maria Eagle moved to culture and two of his critics - Mr McFadden and Michael Dugher - sacked.
"A reshuffle is never easy," he said.
"And there is never a good time to do it.
"We have a shadow cabinet that is strong.
"We have a team which is strong.
"We have widened the shadow cabinet to represent the diversity of the country and the Parliamentary Labour Party.
"I am happy with it.
"We are moving on."
Mr Corbyn had been criticised by some in his party for not being more emphatic in his condemnation of terrorists in the wake of the Paris attacks and for appearing to link the atrocities to the actions of the West.
But the Labour leader said his position had been misconstrued.
"I am absolutely not in favour of terrorism of any sort," he said.
"It is absolutely appalling and disgraceful that civilian life should be taken by random acts of terrorism as happened in Paris."
Mr Corbyn said the French government had been in no way responsible for the attacks, but there needed to be a greater understanding about how so-called Islamic State had come into being and who was funding and arming the militant group.
Asked whether as prime minister, he would authorise a drone strike to kill an alleged terrorist if it was believed they posed a direct threat to Britain, he said: "I would want to see the evidence of it, obviously, what difference it would make by doing that, what the chances are of capturing somebody - I suspect very, very low in those circumstances - so action could be taken."
Documents emerged on Monday suggesting Labour fears its annual income could fall by £6m as a result of legal changes to the way it receives funds from the trade unions.
The Trade Union Bill, being debated in the Lords on Monday, would require Labour-affiliated union members to "opt in" to paying a levy to the party.
And Labour believes three million fewer members of the biggest unions would agree, impacting on its structure.
But Mr Corbyn said the party was in good shape in the country at large and had proved successful in fighting the government over cuts to welfare, policing and local government.
"What I am trying to do is represent a very broad swathe of people's opinions around Britain who felt very put off by the politics of the past and the similarities of the economic strategies of the main parties," he said.
"This is a party which is very determined and very strong, and don't underestimate the huge activity of the hundreds of thousands of people who have joined the Labour Party and are active in communities."
Green Party MP Caroline Lucas has taken over from Jeremy Corbyn as the chair of Parliament's cross-party Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND) group.
The Labour leader is still CND's vice-president but has quit the Parliament role due to time pressure.
Ms Lucas said she was "proud" to succeed Mr Corbyn, who had been "a passionate and effective advocate for nuclear disarmament in Parliament".
She was previously vice chairman of the group.
"There is a growing cross-party consensus on nuclear disarmament with the Labour Party leadership joining the Green Party, SNP and Plaid Cymru in opposition to renewing Trident," added the Brighton Pavilion MP.
Labour is currently considering whether to ditch its longstanding commitment to replacing Britain's Trident nuclear weapons as part of a defence policy review.
The BBC understands Ken Livingstone will not have a formal role on Labour's defence review, which will consider the party's stance on Trident.
The review, to be led by shadow defence secretary Emily Thornberry, will feed into a wider review on the UK's global role that Mr Livingstone will chair.
Ms Thornberry said the defence element would be "based on the evidence" and take into account differing views.
She said she was aiming to publish an interim report by June.
This would enable Labour's National Policy Forum to consider policy on Trident prior to the party conference in September - at which party members could vote to overturn decades of support for nuclear weapons.
The BBC's Carole Walker said it had been assumed that Mr Livingstone would play a leading role in the review of Labour's policy on whether to renew Britain's nuclear weapons.
The former Mayor of London said he was "happy" with the part he was playing and said he and Ms Thornberry - who became defence spokeswoman in a reshuffle earlier this month - were in "complete agreement" on the issue.
Mr Livingstone and Ms Thornberry are opposed to the UK's nuclear weapon system as is Jeremy Corbyn but many Labour MPs support it.
Labour's official policy since the late 1980s has been to keep Trident but supporters of Mr Corbyn want to change it at the party conference later this year, arguing that weapons will never be used and its multibillion pound cost cannot be justified.
The Labour leader has promised to give party members a say over the decision.
However, this could prompt a backlash from senior MPs - including several members of the shadow cabinet - who believe a nuclear deterrent is essential to the UK's national security and place in the world.
Mr Livingstone's involvement in the process has provoked criticism from some Labour MPs as he has been highly critical of supporters of Trident in the party and has not held elected office since stepping down as Mayor of London in 2008.
Setting out the terms of reference for the review, Mrs Thornberry said it would examine the "whole range of defence challenges", not merely Trident, and how best to respond to the threats facing the British people.
It is expected there will be public meetings and seminars as part of the efforts to gather evidence from academics, military personnel, families, party members and other interested parties.
"This will be a comprehensive review of Britain's defence challenges and options for the 21st century," she said. "It will be open, transparent and inclusive, and its conclusions will be based on the evidence.
"At every stage of the process, we will give full scope to the wide range of views on this subject in an atmosphere of mutual respect and trust."
While she would approach the review with an "open mind," she said she was "extremely sceptical" about the grounds for retaining Trident and would "not be afraid to ask some really difficult questions".
She insisted the review "would take as long as it takes" but that, if need be, would publish interim findings to "feed" into discussions at the National Policy Forum, expected to take place in July.
The BBC's political correspondent Carole Walker said there was no intention to prioritise or separate Trident policy from the wider defence review.
Ms Thornberry's review of the party's defence policy will feed into a wider review of Labour's foreign policy on which Mr Livingstone will be co-convenor along with the shadow foreign secretary Hilary Benn. Work has yet to start on the wider policy review on Britain in the World.
MPs will vote at some point this year on whether to proceed with the building of a new generation of Vanguard nuclear submarines, to replace the existing fleet which will become obsolete by the end of the 2020s.
Former Labour defence minister, Lord West, said he would quit the party if it decided not to support Trident, telling Daily Politics the "British public believe in the deterrent" and a policy of unilateralism would be "disastrous".
A Labour government could ban companies from paying dividends to shareholders unless they pay workers the living wage, Jeremy Corbyn has said.
He said in a speech to a think tank too much profit from economic growth had gone to those at the top of society.
The Labour leader was explaining his strategy to tackle pay inequality and "institutionalise fairness" in Britain.
He later told the Unite union in Scotland the Tories wanted to "tip the scales further" in favour of bosses.
Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron said Mr Corbyn "seems committed on ripping apart our business sector in pursuit of an egalitarian fantasy". A Conservative Party spokesman called Labour a "clear threat to our economic security".
Addressing the left-of-centre Fabian Society, Mr Corbyn said: "Only profitable employers will be paying dividends; if they depend on cheap labour for those profits then I think there is a question over whether that is a business model to which we should be turning a blind eye."
CBI chief of staff Matthew Fell said: "The idea of politicians stepping into the relationship between a private company and its shareholders would be a significant intervention, and not one that we would support."
Almost six million workers in the UK are currently paid less than the living wage - an informal benchmark promoted by the Living Wage Foundation, which is currently £8.25 an hour and £9.40 in London.
The government has announced a compulsory National Living Wage for people over 25 starting at £7.20 an hour in April this year, with a target of reaching more than £9 an hour by 2020.
Mr Corbyn said imposing "pay ratios" between those at the top and those at the bottom of a company's pay scale could be another option for creating a fairer society.
He said: "A more equal society is not only fairer, it does better in terms of economic stability and wealth creation."
The Labour leader also used his speech to attack the Conservatives, accusing them of "running the state into the ground" for ideological reasons.
"Their concept of fairness is of a very different order to ours," he said. "Fairness for only a few is not fairness, but privilege."
In his address to Unite's Scottish conference in Glasgow, Mr Corbyn repeated his call, saying companies should "pay the living wage to the workers first and the dividend later on".
He also said a future Labour government would repeal the Trade Union Bill currently going through Parliament, and extend employees' rights.
Mr Corbyn repeated his promise to renationalise the railways, which he said would bring down fares.
And he said the way to cut energy bills for consumers and transition to carbon-free energy was to restore "democratic control" of the energy companies.
Seema Malhotra, shadow chief secretary to the Treasury, told the BBC Mr Corbyn was not announcing "something that is Labour policy" adding "it was an idea" to provoke debate.
Mr Corbyn had said party members and supporters would decide whether his proposals were worth adopting.
"Our... membership has doubled since that [general election] defeat in May; our party is in a process of regenerating - a difficult process of adjustment for us all at times, but a huge opportunity to breathe life into all sections of the party and draw on the collective wisdom of all."
BBC News politics reporter Matt Cole said the speech was a way for Mr Corbyn to regain the political initiative following the shadow cabinet reshuffle over which three of his front-bench team resigned.
He said the "most eye-catching plan", the proposals on dividends, received a warm welcome from Labour supporters happy to move on from what may have seemed like unending internal party rows.
A ban on sympathy strikes by unions not directly involved in a dispute would be repealed under a Labour government, the party's leader Jeremy Corbyn has said.
It was suggested to him, on the BBC's Andrew Marr Show, that the current action by junior doctors would be more effective if the ban was ended.
"Sympathy action is legal in most other countries, it should also be legal here," Mr Corbyn said.
The Tories said the remarks show Labour is a "threat" to economic security.
Asked if he would end the ban on secondary strike action - also known as solidarity action - brought in by Margaret Thatcher's Conservative government in 1990, Mr Corbyn said: "Yes, of course".
He added: "Nobody willingly goes on strike. They go on strike as an ultimate weapon... So let's look at the causes of people being upset rather than the symptoms."
Mr Corbyn also did not rule out allowing the return of flying pickets - where workers travels to support others' action - which were first used in the coal disputes of the 1970s.
He said: "It was merely people moving around showing support during a very difficult industrial dispute."
Referring to the walkout by junior doctors in their dispute with the government about a new contract, Mr Corbyn said they "would be better served if we had a health secretary who was prepared to get involved, meet them and look for a solution".
There were calls for the laws on secondary strikes to be repealed in 2005 while Labour was in power, amid action by baggage handlers at Heathrow Airport in support of sacked staff at the catering firm Gate Gourmet. However, the government then ruled out the prospect of lifting the ban.
The issue re-emerged three years later but then Prime Minister Gordon Brown said there would be "no return" to past laws.
Jeremy Corbyn has suggested the UK could keep its Trident submarine fleet but without carrying nuclear warheads.
The Labour leader told the Andrew Marr show that protecting defence jobs was his "first priority" and there were "options" for doing this while taking a lead in global nuclear "de-escalation".
Labour, which is split over the issue of renewing Trident, has said the idea is similar to one adopted by Japan.
Defence Secretary Michael Fallon said Labour would weaken the UK's defences.
Mr Corbyn is at odds with many of his MPs over the future of the UK nuclear weapons system - which the government has estimated will cost £31bn to renew - and has commissioned a review led by shadow defence secretary Emily Thornberry to look at its future, likely to report in the summer.
The Labour leader has been a longstanding opponent of Trident but some MPs and peers have threatened to resign if Labour reverses its decades-long support for the nuclear deterrent.
Parliament is to hold a vote later this year on whether to proceed with building successor submarines to the existing Vanguard fleet, which is due to become obsolete by the end of the next decade.
Set aside the technicalities; Labour's Trident debate will be a test of political strength.
Ordering new submarines without nuclear weapons could make for a long term compromise, between Jeremy Corbyn and the unions at least.
But - as he makes clear - his views on those weapons aren't changing. Neither are those of his critics.
And - crucially - Parliament will make the main decision on Trident long before the end of Labour's policy review and its party conference.
So the leader, chief whip and shadow cabinet will have to decide whether or not to order Labour MPs to oppose the government.
All the while, ministers are confident of winning the Trident vote, whatever the opposition does.
And some Conservatives who think opposing nuclear weapons makes the opposition look weak are keen on a vote before the May elections.
Unite leader Len McCluskey has urged Mr Corbyn to give MPs a free vote on the issue, as happened over military action in Syria.
Mr Corbyn told the BBC that Trident was a relic from a "Cold War generation" and he did not believe David Cameron would ever contemplate using it.
Asked, in that case, what was the point of having at least one submarine on constant patrol, he said: "They don't have to have warheads on them."
He added: "If anyone uses a nuclear weapon it is catastrophic for the whole globe... There are options there."
Since 1969, according to government documents, a British submarine carrying nuclear weapons has always been on patrol, gliding silently beneath the waves, somewhere in the world's oceans.
The logic is to deter a nuclear attack on the UK because, even if the nation's conventional defence capabilities were destroyed, the silent submarine would still be able to launch a catastrophic retaliatory strike on the aggressor, a concept known as mutually assured destruction.
The submarines carry up to 16 Trident missiles; each can be fitted with a number of warheads, which can be directed at up to 12 different targets.
Union leaders have warned that scrapping Trident could devastate communities reliant on the defence industry and Mr Corbyn said he recognised the need to retain "amazing skills and technology".
Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, who backs the abolition of Trident, told a Unite conference in Clydebank that any decision to do so "must be matched by a programme of diversification and alternative employment".
"That is the position that the Scottish Parliament supported in November and that is the position that we [the SNP] will advocate."
Ms Thornberry said the idea of submarines equipped with conventional warheads, but with the potential to have a nuclear capability, was a posture adopted by Japan.
She told Sunday Politics that it was "certainly one option that is available to us and one thing that needs to be looked at".
But John Woodcock, the MP for Barrow in Furness - where the Vanguard fleet was built - said the idea was "implausible", adding: "Having a deterrent that has no capacity to deter is like having an army with broken rifles and no ammunition."
However, former minister and senior backbencher Keith Vaz said he had changed his mind on Trident.
"I think Jeremy Corbyn has persuaded me. He has made it very clear when he is prime minister that he is not going to be able to use these weapons, so what is the point in having them?" he told Russia Today.
Mr Corbyn, who outlined plans on Saturday to cap levels of executive pay and stop firms which don't pay a living wage from paying dividends, rejected suggestions he was talking only to people who agreed with him.
He said he wanted to "reach out to everybody", including Conservative voters.
He said he backed repealing legislation passed by the Thatcher government in the 1980s banning so-called secondary strike action, where unions walk out in sympathy with other workers already on strike.
Such action, he said, was "legal in other countries" and he asked whether he would legalise it, he replied, "Yes, of course."
The Conservatives said Mr Corbyn's pronouncements showed Labour were a threat to "the security of every working family".
"Labour would weaken Britain's defences by having a nuclear deterrent without any nuclear weapons, and would weaken our economy by changing the law to increase the number of disruptive strikes," said Mr Fallon.
The government's decision to scrap student nurse bursaries in England and replace them with loans was raised by Jeremy Corbyn at Prime Minister’s Questions.
The Labour leader referred to "Vicky", who said she could not have become a mental health nurse without the bursary scheme and that the NHS risked losing her skill and dedication.
David Cameron said the current system would actually turn away two out of three people in Vicky’s situation, leading to more nurses being recruited from Bulgaria and Romania.
David Cameron and Jeremy Corbyn have clashed at Prime Minister's Questions over the axing of student grants and bursaries for nurses in England.
Mr Cameron said replacing bursaries with loans would mean more nurses would be trained - and scrapping student grants would let more go to university.
He accused Mr Corbyn of wanting to "cap aspiration".
But the Labour leader said the PM was saddling students with debt and robbing the NHS of talented would-be nurses.
The Labour leader attempted to strike a headmasterly tone, peering over his glasses with disapproval at a Tory heckler and asking "are you done?"
He stuck to the same broad theme for his six questions and used two crowd-sourced questions, from student Liam and aspiring nurse Vicky.
There were nods of approval from deputy Tom Watson as Mr Corbyn tried to throw Mr Cameron's jibes about being against aspiration back at him.
Aspiration was Mr Cameron's word of the day, as he repeatedly accused the Labour leader of trying to "cap" it.
He ended with the now traditional jibe that he is a threat to national security, broadening it out to cover the entire Labour Party - as well as saying they were retreating into the past.
"We've seen it with wanting to bring back secondary picketing, they want to bring back flying pickets, we've seen it with the idea of stopping businesses paying dividends, and with the absurd idea that nuclear submarines should go to sea without their missiles.
"Anyone watching this Labour Party - and it's not now just the leader, it's the whole Labour Party - they are a risk to our national security, a risk to our economic security, a risk to our health service, and to the security of every family in our country."
Mr Corbyn asked why a student called Liam, who is training to be a maths teacher, would finish his course with debts of more than £50,000, roughly twice his annual income.
Mr Cameron replied: "What I would say to Liam is he is now in a country with a university system with more people going to university than ever before and more people from low-income backgrounds going to university than ever before.
"In addition, what I would say to Liam, and I wish him well, is that he will not pay back a penny of his loan until he's earning £21,000, he will not start paying back in full until he's earning £35,000.
"Our policy is actually going to put more money in the hands of students like Liam, which is why we're doing it."
He claimed Labour plans to scrap loans and fees would cost £10bn, meaning the country would go back to "a situation where people went out, worked hard, pay their taxes for an elite to go to university".
On Tuesday, Labour failed in a last-ditch bid to block the replacement of student maintenance grants in England, which are worth up to £3,500 for university students from poorer families, with loans.
Mr Corbyn asked why student nurses in England were being hit with an effective pay cut of £900 through the scrapping of bursaries, quoting the example of "Vicky", a single mother from York, who said she could not afford to train as a mental health nurse.
Mr Cameron claimed "two out of three Vickys.. who want to be nurses" are rejected under the current system and nurses have to be brought in from "Bulgaria and Romania" to do jobs that home-grown nurses should be doing.
Mr Corbyn claimed "nine out of 10 hospitals currently have a nurse shortage" and the government's plans would make this worse.
The Labour leader then highlighted comments from Tory MP and former nurse Maria Caulfield who said she would have struggled to train without a bursary.
Mr Cameron denied this, claiming the proposals would actually "uncap" the numbers that go into nursing and create 10,000 extra nurse degree places.
Jeremy Corbyn was barracked by Conservative MPs after David Cameron reaffirmed the government's support for Falkland islanders' right to self-determination and rejection of Argentina's claim to the Falklands, which Buenos Aires has maintained since the 1982 war.
Speaking after the Commons clash, a senior Labour source said the party supported "self-determination" for the Falkland Islanders but there was a need for a fresh dialogue with Argentina "to seek a long-term solution to the conflict".
Mr Corbyn sparked controversy in a weekend TV interview by saying he wanted discussions on "some reasonable accommodation" with Argentina, adding that the islanders should have an "enormous say" in any discussions on their future.
The Conservatives had some Beatles-related fun with Jeremy Corbyn's suggestion, in an interview with the BBC's Andrew Marr, that the UK could retain its nuclear missile submarines but send them to sea without their warheads.
Lincoln MP Karl McCartney set the prime minister up, claiming that Labour's defence policy was "inspired by The Beatles' Yellow Submarine and shows that while the members opposite may Twist And Shout, their current leader certainly needs Help".
Mr Cameron hailed his "ingenious" question before providing the punchline: "All I can say when it comes to Beatles songs, I suspect that the Leader of the Opposition prefers Back In The USSR."
In what may be the first stage show written about a leader of the opposition, a Jeremy Corbyn musical is coming to a London theatre.
Corbyn the Musical: The Motorcycle Diaries is described as a "no-holds barred political satire".
It sees the Labour leader facing a nuclear crisis with Russia and tells of a motorcycle holiday he allegedly took with Diane Abbott in the 1970s.
It is being staged at Waterloo East Theatre in April.
Writers Rupert Myers and Bobby Friedman will be working on the show - which has been described as "James Bond meets the Kama Sutra" - up until the end of February to make sure it is as up to date as possible.
Myers, political correspondent for British GQ, said Friedman suggested the idea after his uncle said that "someone should write a comedy musical about Jeremy Corbyn".
"He cornered me on my birthday when I'd had a few glasses of wine," Myers told the BBC. "It took us about 20 minutes to come up with the plot.
"It wrote itself when we established it was going to be about Jeremy Corbyn's alleged motorbike odyssey through East Germany with Diane Abbott - and the rest is history.
"The whole process was very natural and the first draft came very easily.
"But the nature of this thing is that Jeremy Corbyn is providing so much rolling material."
Asked to describe the plot, he said: "Basically, Jeremy Corbyn faces an imminent nuclear crisis with Russia, and the secret of unlocking this lies in his past.
"It's a drama about what happened on that journey, and what helps in that situation."
He promised that Mr Corbyn would be receiving an invitation to attend one of the 12 performances of the musical, adding that it "would be wonderful" to know the Labour leader's thoughts.
"I would like to think that anyone would want to see a play about their own lives," said the writer. "I don't think it would be politically very savvy for him to attend - which means he may well do so."
But Myers is not sure what reception the 95-minute musical will have.
He wrote in The Telegraph: "For his eccentricities, his fascinating life story, and his personality, Corbyn was the perfect choice for satirical treatment.
"Mocking the leader of the Labour party is definitely 'punching up' in comic terms, but I am still nervous that those whose political sympathies lie with Corbyn will determine that he isn't fair game."
Other characters in the musical include Boris Johnson, Tony Blair and Ed Miliband.
"We want it to be a play that takes a shot at everybody," said Myers. "There will be characters from right across the political spectrum."
Myers said the musical was yet to be cast, but that he hoped to "twist the arm" of comedian Lolly Adefope to play Ms Abbott.
He had previously teamed up with Friedman for the comedy podcast Political Takeout. Original music for the musical is being written by Jen Green.
But it's not the first time songs have been written about Mr Corbyn.
BBC Radio 4's 15-minute Musicals broadcast Jeremy Corbyn Superstar! last month, featuring lines including: "Jeremy, beard and bike - grows his own vegetables, what's not to like?".
Jeremy Corbyn has visited a migrant camp in northern France and spoken of the "dreadful conditions" there.
The Labour leader said conditions in the Grande-Synthe camp near Dunkirk would be a "disgrace anywhere", and Britain should be "part of bringing European support to people".
He said the long-term solution was to deal with the conflicts causing the migration crisis.
On Friday France's PM said the crisis was putting the EU at grave risk.
Mr Corbyn was given a tour of the Grande-Synthe camp, meeting migrants and aid workers.
"What I'm trying to achieve here is to understand the nature of the refugee crisis that's facing the whole of Europe," he said.
"Ultimately we deal with the situation by dealing with the problem at its source, which are the wars and conflicts.
"Also, there are the human needs of people. We have got people here who have been here for months, if not longer than that, with no proper education, no access to doctors, no access to dentists, limited access to food - in very cold, very wet conditions."
He added: "We as human beings have to reach out to fellow human beings."
Aid workers said tents at the camp were surrounded by puddles of water and food, which had attracted rats.
The population of the camp has risen steadily in recent weeks to about 2,500, including about 250 children, according to Medecins Sans Frontieres?. It says most are Kurds from Iran, Syria and Iraq who hope to reach the UK.
Speaking about the migration crisis, Mr Corbyn said: "Germany has done an enormous amount, other countries have done varying amounts and I think we should be part of bringing European support to people."
In September Prime Minister David Cameron said Britain would accept 20,000 refugees from Syria over five years.
Volunteers from several countries, including the UK, continue to help migrants living in camps in northern France. Aid gathered by a Glasgow Muslim society arrived at a camp in Calais shortly before Mr Corbyn's Dunkirk visit.
Labour's leadership is heading "in the opposite direction to where voters are" on big issues, an ex-minister says.
Frank Field said Jeremy Corbyn was in touch on "economic injustices" but warned of an electoral "walloping" over security and migration.
Mr Corbyn is against Britain's nuclear weapons system and has called on the UK to accept more refugees.
Meanwhile, a former Labour pollster has criticised the party's report into why it lost the election.
Deborah Mattinson told the BBC's Sunday Politics her research had not been included in the review, led by Dame Margaret Beckett, and branded it a "whitewash and a massive missed opportunity".
Labour said the Beckett report had "consulted far and wide", taking input from pollsters, pundits and academics.
Mr Field, a former welfare minister, campaigns on migration issues alongside Conservative MP Sir Nicholas Soames.
In a Sunday Telegraph article, they call for an end to the UK's "open-door policy", warning of a risk to social cohesion unless immigration is reduced.
He told Sky News: "On the big issues, sadly, which will decide the next election, which is about defending our borders and defending us as a nation, the Labour opposition looks as if it is walking in the opposite direction.
"Clearly that is going to have to be sorted out before the next election if we are not to get a walloping yet again."
Speaking on the BBC's Sunday Politics, Michael Dugher, who was sacked as shadow culture secretary in Mr Corbyn's reshuffle, said the Labour leader "faces a big test" in the May elections.
Mr Dugher said Mr Corbyn had to be given a chance because of his "huge mandate from party members", but said he had to show he could convert this into support from the public, including Conservative voters.
Speaking to John Pienaar on BBC Radio 5 Live, former front-bencher Chuka Umunna said May's elections would be "essential" but said Mr Corbyn was "elected by our members and he deserves a chance to show he can do it".
He also said it was "unfair" to call the report into Labour's election defeat a whitewash.
There is an old blues standard with the lyric "I've been down so very damn long, this looks like up to me". By that measure, things are looking up for the Labour leader.
To the fury and frustration of many of his parliamentary colleagues, and the slack-jawed amazement of some lobby journalists, Jeremy Corbyn is still in the job after failing every test they have set him.
Perhaps, it says as much about them as about him.
Now the smoke has cleared away from the reshuffle, he has regained control over a key policy - Trident.
He was given a kind of standing ovation for a speech to a Fabian conference, which some described as his best yet.
And he survived a big interview with Andrew Marr, with only one headline mocking his naivety.
Perhaps most importantly, Len McCluskey the leader of the UK's biggest union, Unite, told me, on BBC Radio 4's World This Weekend programme, that to regard the May elections as a referendum on Mr Corbyn was ridiculous - he would be "allowed"' two or three years to prove himself.
These are all very low bars.
Mr Cameron and Mr Osborne are not quaking in their boots.
But they leave the Labour right with a huge conundrum - one insightful commentator has been musing recently on whether it should even want to do well in the coming elections.
Fanciful ideas circulate about MPs saying they have a mandate, because millions of people have voted for them, whereas Mr Corbyn and Labour members do not.
But basing a strategy around losing elections and formalising a split are more of a yardstick of desperation than practical politics.
Journalists and politicians based at Westminster see the world in a certain way, through a fairly narrow lens, and measure daily success and failure through a set of unwritten rules reached by instinct rather than reflection.
The soap opera of the Westminster village matters to those who adore the storyline.
It is often about a tug of war between positive and negative headlines, trials of strength over internal and external opponents, with all the fragility of narrative within a bubble.
One of the reasons Mr Corbyn attracts so much opprobrium from those whose orbit circles planet Westminster is he will not accept their measure of his worth.
He seems more concerned with remaking the Labour Party in his own image than winning applause from hostile crowds.
The climax of one of my favourite science-fiction novels by the late, great Iain M Banks, The Player of Games has the representative of a pan-species libertarian communist idyll of which Mr Corbyn might approve taking on a brutal, fascistic, authoritarian and warlike regime at a sort of violent hi-tech version of multi-dimensional chess.
He, unwittingly, plays their destructive game of conquest and revenge in a way that turns it into an artistic performance, a harmonious, complex ballet.
His opponents react with vast, speechless fury because he has done something much worse than beat them.
He has undermined their rules and their values.
This is not to say Mr Corbyn is about to do the same.
But Westminster's rules are not the only measure.
There is a similar level of mutual incomprehension.
And the Labour leader, with an equal lack of guile, is subverting the game itself.
It is not that Mr Corbyn does not play by the rules, so much as he simply disdains them, a debutant who turns up at the ball in torn jeans and slouches against the wall, sullenly refusing to join the dance.
New Labour's architects understood something obvious but rarely exploited until then - politicians are known to the great mass of voters only through the media.
A central part of their strategy was to seize control of the way their image and actions would be reported.
The techniques varied from wooing to bullying, circumventing the hard questions to tackling them head on.
The message merged with the medium.
Mr Corbyn appears to be the very mirror image of this.
His speeches do not contain an obvious attention-grabbing new policy, briefed in advance.
Prime Minister's Questions is not a mano-a-mano trial of strength, envisaged through the lens of the next hour's headline.
Inside the serious personnel management of a reshuffle, there is no central message.
But in this he is, possibly unwittingly, following a central insight of Alastair Campbell and Tony Blair about media management - most people do not follow the details of politics, it is the broad image, a flavour, that comes across.
It could just work.
Mr Corbyn's dogged pursuit of policy and principle without fancy frills and theatrical lunges at the enemy does portray a certain earnest sincerity that clearly appeals to many potential supporters of the Labour Party.
My unscientific analysis would suggest many Corbyn enthusiasts are not the Trotskyists of MPs' imagination but people disillusioned by Mr Blair and Gordon Brown, impelled by youthful enthusiasm or nostalgic remembrance for something with less "yah" and "boo" and more principle.
For often less than good or sensible reasons, "politician" has long been an insult - people who elevate tactics and electoral victory over higher purpose.
Not being like them, may not be seen as such a bad thing.
But the problem for the Labour Party is this may be enough to keep Mr Corbyn from being seriously challenged but not enough to win any new voters.
As Margaret Beckett's report makes clear, having an electable leader and a winning economic policy are central but not the only challenges.
The loss of Scotland, the collapse of working-class loyalty, English identity, an ageing population, the ideological challenges for the centre left are, on their own, big roadblocks on the path to power.
Piled up together, it is hard to envisage the sort of bulldozer that could shift them.
Mr Corbyn may not be the man for the job - but he is the man with the job, behind the wheel.
I have always found when kings and queens forged history fascinating.
They were often very ordinary people, without formal training, thrust into exceptional roles.
How they fared says much about human nature and politics.
But this is not true of modern democracies.
Indeed, it is not true of most modern dictatorships.
Whether Stalin or Churchill, or indeed Neil Kinnock or Iain Duncan Smith, leaders have paid their dues, gained a patina of experience, during their far from inexorable and inevitable rise.
They have learnt the tricks of the trade the hard way, hard knocks filing off rough edges.
But this is not true of Mr Corbyn, who never planned to be leader, never thought he would be, and has not jostled colleagues for power and position.
The fervent republican King Jeremy the Accidental has little past history of cunning or compromise, just the guiding principle of a passionately held set of ideas.
We may need a different ruler to measure his rule - both its length and purpose.
David Cameron has brushed off Jeremy Corbyn’s calls for the UK to help more refugees in Calais, saying it would make the French border a magnet for more migrants.
The prime minister said the Labour leader’s comments suggested he supported “an entirely open-door migration policy”.
Following visits to camps in Dunkirk and Calais at the weekend, Corbyn said he thought the UK should do more to help refugees with a family link to Britain to claim asylum, and pressed Cameron to take a “more human” approach.
However, Cameron said this would simply encourage expansion of the camps.
“I think it would be a very bad move to make Calais a magnet for even more people to come by saying there was some sort of direct access from Calais into the UK, as Jeremy Corbyn seems to be saying. That is the wrong approach,” he said.
In relation to migrants with a family link to the UK, Cameron said the UK was already supporting people to claim asylum under those rules, despite numerous reports that the system is not functioning properly.
“It is important to understand that under the existing Dublin rules if someone claims asylum in another European country – in France or in Italy or in Germany – and they can prove a direct family connection then they are able under the Dublin regulations to come to Britain. That is a different matter,” he said in Downing Street.
“We talk about children who may be alone in Europe or elsewhere able to make that claim under the Dublin regulations so they can be reunited with their families. That is a different matter and is in the Dublin regulations and of course we support it.”
In a Commons debate, Cameron faced calls from some of his own MPs to take in more unaccompanied refugee children.
Eric Pickles, the former communities secretary, said there were some clear parallels with the Kindertransport scheme – the British initiative that saved almost 10,000 Jewish children from the Nazis during the second world war – though it was important not to stretch the analysis too far.
“We need to remember that the last train that was disrupted by the war, only two of those children survived and they along with their families were killed. But I think there are some clear parallels that we need to address,” he said.
“We need to remember the enormous contribution that the Kindertransport made to this country: distinguished doctors, distinguished surgeons, members of both houses [of parliament] were saved by that.”
Tim Loughton, the Tory former children’s minister, said there was a humanitarian case for doing more to help unaccompanied minors.
Yvette Cooper, who leads Labour’s taskforce on refugees, called on the government to emulate the Kindertransport programme. She said 26,000 minors arrived in Europe without any family last year.
Charities and parties from across the political spectrum have called on the government to take its fair share of these children.
Responding to an urgent question from Cooper in parliament, James Brokenshire, the immigration minister, said the government’s policy on child refugees was under review.
“The government is clear that any action to help and assist unaccompanied minors must be in the best interests of the child and it is right that that is our primary concern,” he said. “We take our responsibilities seriously and this issue is under careful consideration when this work is completed we will update the house accordingly.”
David Cameron has urged Londoners not to elect Labour's Sadiq Khan as their next mayor, claiming they will become "lab rats" for party leader Jeremy Corbyn's economic experiments.
Speaking at a rally for Tory candidate Zac Goldsmith, the prime minister warned about the dangers of a Labour victory for the capital's economy.
Mr Goldsmith said his Labour rival was "Mr Corbyn's man" in City Hall.
But Mr Khan said he was "no patsy" to Mr Corbyn and would stand up to him.
It is 100 days until London elects a new mayor to succeed Boris Johnson, who is stepping down after eight years.
The vote will be a key electoral test for Jeremy Corbyn and Labour, for whom the capital was one of the few bright spots in last year's dismal general election defeat. Last May, Labour won four seats from the Tories in London and hope to win back City Hall for the first time since 2008.
Addressing a rally of Conservative activists, Mr Cameron sought to frame the election as an early verdict on Jeremy Corbyn's leadership of the Labour party as well as a choice between Mr Goldsmith and Mr Khan.
"Zac Goldsmith can be a great mayor. You've got the man and the plan, think for a moment about the alternative," he said.
"Sadiq Khan nominated Jeremy Corbyn to be leader of the Labour party and he doesn't regret it. Never mind the fact he (Mr Corbyn) wants to give the Falklands back to Argentina or he thinks that nuclear submarines should patrol the Atlantic without any missiles.
"His policy is to bring back and legalise secondary strikes and flying pickets. Just think what the first Corbyn-elected Mayor would be like for our economy, for our city. You do not want to be lab rats in the first Corbyn economic experiment in public life".
Ahead of the rally, the Conservatives launched a poster campaign depicting Mr Goldsmith as "your man in City Hall".
In an interview with the Daily Telegraph, Mr Khan said he would stand up to the Labour leader over the issue of Trident renewal and Mr Corbyn's plans for a "Robin Hood" tax on financial transactions, which Mr Khan opposes.
"That is the job of the Mayor of London: not to be a patsy or a spokesperson for George Osborne and David Cameron - as Mr Goldsmith is being - or Jeremy Corbyn or the party, but to be London's advocate to their party and the government."
While he said he did not regret nominating Mr Corbyn for leader - and therefore allowing him to get onto the ballot paper - he said he would have his "own mandate" if he was elected.
"There will be occasions when frankly speaking I disagree with Jeremy," he said, citing his support for Gatwick expansion and pro-business agenda.
He said he wanted to build the broadest electoral alliance: "When you meet and study the best mayors from around the world they are not tribal. What they try and do is to reach across the entire city."
The Liberal Democrats, UKIP, the Green Party and the English Democrats are also fielding candidates in May's election while former Respect MP George Galloway is also standing. The Conservatives and Labour won 84% of the vote between them in the first round in 2012.
Former Labour leader Neil Kinnock has questioned whether Jeremy Corbyn can win power and said he could face calls to stand down if he does not "make advances" with the public.
Lord Kinnock said Mr Corbyn's task was to "win power for the party" rather than to "secure power in the party".
While Mr Corbyn should have "space" to lead, he said he must pass clear tests.
And he suggested that if Mr Corbyn failed to connect with the electorate, "he may come to his own conclusions".
In an article for the New Statesman, Lord Kinnock - who led the party between 1983 and 1992 and lost two general elections - appealed for the party to pull together, saying any split in Labour's ranks similar to that which led to the creation of the SDP in the 1980s would be very damaging.
He said Mr Corbyn must be judged on his performance but suggested it was hard for the Labour leader and his close allies to "uphold unity" given Mr Corbyn's record of rebelling against former leaders, including himself.
Assessing Labour's and Mr Corbyn's long-term prospects, he wrote: "It's difficult to see that [Jeremy Corbyn is electable].
"Many of the people who voted for Jeremy are outstanding party members who said that they were frustrated - indeed, infuriated - by the failure of Labour to connect with the electorate.
"I know exactly what they mean, but that's the test. If Jeremy is seen to be failing to connect to the electorate after a reasonable space of time then he may come to his own conclusions."
Lord Kinnock, who supported Andy Burnham for leader in last year's contest, added: "There's a fundamental question here and it is whether people want to secure power in the party or to win power for the party.
"Those people who want to win power, whether they're left, right or centre, will be watching the evidence and will make their decision on the basis of that evidence. Not because of some spasm of emotion, or the fact that their candidate didn't get elected:
"They'll want to know they have a party that is being led in its advance with the electorate. If that isn't the case then conclusions must be drawn."
Mr Corbyn, who had never served on the frontbench in his long political career before being elected in a landslide victory in September, has insisted that he is making progress as opposition leader and has forced the government onto the back foot on a range of issues.
He has acknowledged that elections in May for the Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly and English councils, as well as the election of a new London Mayor, will be an important test of his leadership and standing with the public.
The Conservatives are seeking to turn the mayoral contest into a referendum on Mr Corbyn's leadership, describing Labour candidate Sadiq Khan as "Mr Corbyn's man in City Hall".
Labour's official report into its 2015 defeat published last week concluded it would be a "huge challenge" for Labour to win power in 2020, whoever was leader.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn's proposal to penalise firms who do not pay the Living Wage has been described as "unworkable" by his business spokesman.
Angela Eagle told The Sunday Times the plan to ban such firms from paying dividends was "not a runner".
The idea was criticised as "silly" by Labour economic adviser David Blanchflower, in the New Statesman.
Shadow chancellor John McDonnell said the criticisms would be taken on board in the party's policy review.
Mr Corbyn floated the idea of banning profitable firms who "depend on cheap labour for those profits" from paying dividends to shareholders in a speech earlier this month.
Ms Eagle, who heads Labour's National Policy Forum, said companies should be encouraged to act more fairly, but "a ban on dividends is not the way to do it".
She told The Sunday Times: "It is an interesting idea, but it does not actually work."
Asked to respond to her comments on the BBC's Sunday Politics, Mr McDonnell said "that's why it's open for discussion".
The government is set to increase the current minimum wage, which rose to £6.70 an hour last year, to a £9 an hour for over 25s by the end of the decade.
It will be rebranded as a National Living Wage, but Labour argues it will still be below the level full time workers need to afford a decent standard of living.
Mr McDonnell said he planned to bring in a legally enforceable "real living wage" when Labour came to power.
"But in the meantime, we want to campaign with shareholders so that they pressurise their companies to abide by a real living wage and I think there is an alliance to be built there," he added.
Responding to criticism from David Blanchflower, who is a member of Labour's economic advisory panel, Mr McDonnell said "we will listen to his advice and take it on board".
Mr Blanchflower said the new Labour leadership had to "learn fast" about the realities of capitalism and stop suggesting "silly stuff" such as the dividends ban.
In a separate development, Lord Mandelson has accused Jeremy Corbyn and his supporters of declaring war on "decent Labour party members" who do not share their values.
He denied there was a civil war going on in the Labour Party but said many of those who back Mr Corbyn are now wondering if he is up to the job.
The former minister, who served in government under two Labour prime ministers said he thinks Jeremy Corbyn is "unsupportable" by the public, and is failing to put "fear" into the Conservatives.
Speaking to BBC South West, he said: "People sense that we just don't have credible policies and certainly not a leader they'd like to see as prime minister.
"And certainly if we fight the election in 2020 as we are now then my fear would be that we would face a very disappointing result.
"But there's time to go between now and then. And time for the party to make up his mind what it wants to do."
He added: "For Jeremy Corbyn and his supporters to turn around and say for people who disagree with them, that they are just Tories, that's not just insulting, that is actually very divisive, and a declaration of war by them on many decent Labour party members who share Labour party values."
Don’t stop me if you’ve heard all this before. This story has a novelty ending. Sitting comfortably? 
Jeremy Corbyn, you will have read, is leading the Labour Party to a string of election defeats, beginning with a bunch of them in May. Labour will lose in Scotland, lose in Wales and lose in most of England too. The one potential light on this gloomy near horizon is the contest for the London mayoralty. Most available evidence suggests that Labour’s Sadiq Khan is on course for victory. It is widely held that a Khan triumph in the capital would give Corbyn’s hapless leadership a bit of breathing space; a metropolitan version of the air pocket Jim McMahon kindly supplied by winning Oldham West back in December.
All of the above is probably true. But here’s where my story deviates from the standard script. The election of a Mayor Khan would give Corbyn something to cheer about, but his party something sobering to reflect on too. It would send a larger message about the state of Labour, one that would be heard far beyond the boundaries of the capital. That message would say that a Labour politician who is savvy, practical and paints a persuasive picture of beneficial change can win power from a left-of-centre platform no matter what muck Conservatives throw at him. Corbyn would not find comparisons flattering. 
Last week, the first major hustings of the mayoral campaign was held at the London School of Economics, hosted by the London Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The candidates of the capital’s five leading parties displayed their charms to a packed house. The three outsiders - Sian Berry for the Greens, Caroline Pidgeon of the Lib Dems and Ukip’s Peter Whittle - will all have made new friends, but the next mayor is almost certain to be Khan or the Tory Zac Goldsmith. 
The debate was not decisive - a low-scoring draw, or perhaps a narrow Khan win- but it was instructive. Goldsmith, slender, tall and with the manner of an earnest yet diffident royal, is being sold as both a Richmond Park free spirit and a fellow his party leaders in government can do business with. Londoners’ top concern is housing, specifically the soaring price of it. Goldsmith wants a big push to redevelop public brownfield land, including what he has called “ugly” estates. He linked house-building to transport policy, correctly arguing that where a new rail line goes, investment in new homes tends to follow. Where would Khan’s proposed four-year fares freeze leave that and the finances of Transport for London (TfL), he asked?
It was pleasant to hear him expounding policy, albeit largely thanks to the contrast this made with the “red scare” strategy his Crosbyite campaign team is conducting in an attempt to depress the Labour vote and frighten indifferent Tory sympathisers and floating voters into backing their boy. For months their propaganda has yoked Khan’s name to Corbyn’s, making much of the fact that Khan nominated him to join the Labour leadership contest but not, of course, mentioning that Khan, like around half of the 35 Labour MPs who helped Corbyn in the same way, didn’t actually vote for him.
David Cameron, a man now routinely resembling a golf club members’ lounge boor, has lately joined in with this dismal exercise by claiming that Khan would use Londoners as “lab rats” in some dastardly Corbynite experiment. Both he and Goldsmith know perfectly well that Khan, unlike Corbyn, is a mainstream “soft Left” Labour politician, that mayoral powers are too narrow for dry running full-scale national regimes and that, in any case, Corbyn looks as likely to become prime minister as Donald Trump does to convert to Islam. There are more dignified ways to make a living than spending mountains of money peddling cheap insinuation, but I suppose there might be a knighthood in it.
I still can’t quite believe that Goldsmith’s soul sits well with all this stuff. Dig out back issues of The Ecologist magazine, which he edited for six years from early 2000, and make acquaintance with an inquiring, passionate, dedicated world-saver, calling for the cancellation of poor nations’ debts, denouncing Blairite collusion with global corporations and giving Tony Benn space to lament the decline of democracy. Given his wealth, localist fancies, long-term Euroscepticism and green welly concerns, joining the Tories was always a likely route to accommodation with the political establishment. But now Goldsmith finds himself speaking up for more armed police and touting the opaque concessions he says he’s salvaged from the Housing Bill. At the hustings he was at his most convincing when railing against HGVs and poisonous fumes. Being hitched to the Tories diminishes him in this setting. He’d bring more grace and quality to the mayoral contest if he ran as an independent.
Khan, by contrast, was buzzy, judiciously pugnacious and adept at jab and move. “Scratched record,” groaned someone sitting behind me when he informed his umpteenth audience that he grew up in a council house in Tooting. Yet the contrast this makes with the privileged Goldsmith seems to be helping him. Khan’s choppy speaking style doesn’t always serve him well, but he makes a few jokes, which do. He’s not averse to playing the populist, such as by feeding the common prejudice that London’s shortage of homes most Londoners can afford would magically end if only rich foreigners were stopped from buying expensive ones. It won him a big round of applause.
He’s been building bridges and defences too, reaching out audaciously to London’s business interests and pledging solidarity with all communities: Square Mile grandees and the Jewish Chronicle are among those to declare themselves impressed. After Cameron suggested that Khan, a Muslim, would be weak against “Islamist extremists”, the Labour candidate has accused the government of leaving the capital “vulnerable” by its “failure” on the issue. 
On Sunday, he faced stiff questioning from BBC London’s political editor Tim Donovan (watch from 40 minute point), who pressed him on his fares freeze pledge and on housing policy, asking Khan to explain, among other things, how his proposed “50% rule” to increase the amount of below market-priced homes in housing developments could possibly work. Khan would not be moved: his fares policy was “fully costed” he said, brushing aside a TfL briefing document contending that it is not; a 50% “affordable” housing yield was being achieved in some parts of London. 
They may or may not impress you, but this Labour politician has his battle lines worked out: Londoners will pay no more to catch a bus or Tube in 2020 than they do now if I am mayor; I will be the “most business-friendly mayor ever”; London will be “a living wage city”; unlike Goldsmith, I have “the vision, the values and the experience”; I will be “a mayor for all Londoners.” It has been argued, persuasively, that neither Khan nor Goldsmith has yet created a really clear or exciting sense of how they’d want London to change. But there is still time for that, and the outline of a Khan story for capital is starting to be written: dynamic yet inclusive, prosperous yet affordable, competitive yet fair. Meanwhile, where the nation is concerned, Corbyn has yet to find his Biro.
Much could yet change in the race for City Hall and even though London’s electoral demographics look favourable, it is far from guaranteed that Khan will win. But if he does it will not only give Corbyn a measure of comfort. It will also serve as a sharp rebuke. 
